:Product: 04111230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Apr 11 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached low levels, with numerous low level C-class
flares observed. Most of the flare activity was produced by regions
beyond the east and west limbs. Region 3628 (N08W35, Hsx/alpha)
exhibited decay and remained quiet. Region 3633 (S08E12, Cso/beta-gamma)
continued to decay while producing C-class activity. Region 3635
(N19E41, Cso/beta) was numbered this period, but was otherwise
unremarkable.

From ~11/0515-0605 UTC, an approximately 15 degree long filament,
centered near N20W02, was observed lifting off the solar disk.
Corresponding dimming was observed in SUVI 195 imagery, and a filament
eruption was observed lifting off to the east in SUVI 304. The resulting
coronagraph imagery is being analyzed and modeled at the time of this
summary. No other potentially Earth-directed CMEs were observed.

.Forecast...
Solar activity will likely to continue at low levels on 11 Apr with a
slight chance for M-class flare activity. Probabilities increase for
12-13 Apr to a chance for isolated M-class flare activity with the
anticipated return of old AR 3615.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels. The
greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to remain at background
levels. The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at
normal to moderate levels through 13 Apr.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters reflected weak positive polarity CH HSS
influences. Total field ranged 1-7 nT, the Bz component was +/- 6 nT
with no significant, sustained southward deflections, and solar wind
speeds averaged near 450 km/s. Phi was predominantly positive.

.Forecast...
Weak enhancements in the solar wind environment are anticipated to
wane over the course of 11 Apr, with a return to nominal conditions on
12 Apr. Disturbances are expected once again on 13 Apr due to negative
polarity CH HSS influences.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to unsettled levels.

.Forecast...
Quiet to unsettled conditions, with a chance for isolated active
periods, are expected on 11 and 13 Apr due to CH HSS effects. A
primarily quiet environment is expected on 12 Apr.


:Product: 12141230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Dec 14 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar flare activity reached moderate levels. Region 3922 (S18E18,
Bxo/beta) produced an M1.0 flare at 13/1424 UTC, the largest of the
period, and exhibited decay throughout the period. Region 3924 (S19W08,
Dai/beta-gamma) exhibited moderate growth but remained quiet. The
remaining regions were either stable or in decay. No Earth-directed CMEs
were detected.

.Forecast...
R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) radio blackouts are likely over 14-16 Dec.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux reached moderate levels and the
greater than 10 MeV proton flux remained at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to remain at normal to
moderate levels over 14-16 Dec. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is
expected to remain at background levels through 16 Dec.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were at nominal levels. Total field reached 9 nT
and the Bz component varied between +4/-7 nT. Solar wind speeds ranged
between 275-355 km/s. Phi was predominantly positive.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are expected to remain at nominal levels on 14
Dec. On 15 Dec, an increase in solar wind parameters is likely due to
influence from an equatorial, positive polarity CH HSS.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet and unsettled.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to be quiet and unsettled on 14 Dec.
Unsettled conditions, with a chance for isolated active periods,
are expected on 15-16 Dec under positive polarity CH HSS effects.


:Product: 12240030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Dec 24 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels this period. Region 3932 (S17E27,
Fkc/beta-gamma-delta) produced an impulsive M8.9 flare (R2-Moderate) at
23/1112 UTC; the largest event of the period. Development continued
among the cluster of active regions in the SE quadrant, with a few small
delta spots emerging. A new spot region appeared near S11W38 but has not
been numbered at the time of this writing.

Model analysis of a large CME, associated with the M8.9 flare at 23/1112
UTC and visible in LASCO C2 imagery beginning at 23/1124 UTC off the
south, indicated a possible arrival at Earth during the later half of 25
Dec.

.Forecast...
M-class flare activity is likely (R1/R2-Minor/Moderate), with a slight
chance for an isolated X-class flare (R3/Strong), over 23-25 Dec.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux remained elevated above background
but well below the S1 threshold, mostly due to activity that erupted on
the far side of the Sun over 20 Dec. The greater than 2 MeV electron
flux crossed the alert threshold at 23/1520 UTC, with a peak flux of
1540 pfu at 23/1725 UTC, and decreasing below the threshold at 23/1935
UTC.

.Forecast...
There remains a slight chance for the greater than 10 MeV proton flux to
reach S1 (Minor) levels over 24-26 Dec. The greater than 2 MeV electron
flux is expected to continue at normal to moderate levels through 26
Dec.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were weakly enhanced this period. Total field
reached a peak of 7 nT and Bz varied between +/- 6 nT Solar wind speeds
ranged from 525-630 km/s, and the phi angle was predominantly negative.

.Forecast...
Enhanced solar wind conditions are expected to prevail over 24-26 Dec.
Negative polarity CH HSS influences are expected over 24-25 Dec, and
there is a chance to see the glancing influences of a CME (from 20 Dec)
on 24 Dec and more direct influence from a CME (from 23 Dec) on 25 Dec. 

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field ranged from quiet to active levels.

.Forecast...
G1 (Minor) storming conditions are expected on 25 Dec, with a slight
chance for isolated G2 (Moderate) periods, due to the arrival of a CME
from 23 Dec. Waning influence may carry through 26 Dec where it could
interact with a positive polarity coronal hole, producing largely
unsettled conditions with isolated active periods.

The geomagnetic field is expected to be quiet and unsettled, with a
chance for isolated active periods, on 24 Dec due to negative
polarity CH HSS influence plus additional enhancement from the glancing
influences of a CME that left the Sun on 20 Dec.


:Product: 03161230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Mar 16 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at low levels. Only low-level C-class activity was
observed. Newly numbered Region 3613 (S25W11, Cro/beta) was simple and
relatively quiet, much like the remaining four spotted regions on the
visible disk. 

Other activity included a filament eruption just north of center disk
beginning ~16/0500 UTC. Further coronagraph imagery is required to
identify and analyze any potential CME associated with the event.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low on 16 Mar. Very low to low levels
are likely on 17-18 Mar.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux slowly became enhanced after 15/0600
UTC, following activity from Region 3599 beyond the W limb, and reached 
S1 (Minor) levels beginning 15/2050 UTC. The greater than 2 MeV electron
flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to continue at S1
(Minor) levels on 16 Mar, with a chance for S1 conditions to persist
into 17 Mar. Proton flux levels are expected to be well below S1 levels
over 18 Mar. The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at
normal to moderate levels on 16-18 Mar.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind conditions were weakly enhanced due to positive polarity CH
HSS influences. Solar wind speeds near ~400 km/s for most of the period.
Total magnetic field strength was at or below 5 nT and the Bz component
was mostly positive. Phi angle was predominantly positive.

.Forecast...
Weakly enhanced solar wind conditions are expected to prevail over 16-17
Mar due to continued CH HSS influences. Background levels are expected
to return by 18 Mar.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to range from quiet to unsettled over
16-17 Mar due to continued CH HSS influences. Quiet conditions are
expected on 18 Mar.


:Product: 04140030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Apr 14 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached moderate (R1/Minor) levels due to an impulsive
M2.4/Sf at 13/0502 UTC from Region 3637 (S11E66, Cro/beta). Multiple
C-class flares were also observed just beyond the SE limb. Slight growth
was observed in Region 3634 (N27W17, Dki/beta). The rest of the spot
groups were relatively stable or slightly decaying.

A CME was observed off the N limb in SOHO/LASCO C2 imagery beginning at
13/1648 UTC, likely associated with a C5.5 flare at 13/1459 UTC from
Region 3634. Analysis is in progress, however, given its northerly
trajectory, an Earth-directed component is unlikely.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low with a chance for M-class flares
(R1-R2/Minor-Moderate) on 14-16 Apr.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels. The
greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to remain at background
levels. The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at
normal to moderate levels through 16 Apr.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were at nominal levels with solar wind speed
averaging around 390 km/s. Total field ranged from 2-4 nT with the Bz
component between +4/-3 nT. Phi angle was predominately positive.

.Forecast...
Solar wind conditions are expected to become enhanced on 14 Apr and
continuing through 15 Apr due to the anticipated arrival of CMEs from 11
and 12 Apr, in addition to continued CH HSS influences. Solar wind
parameters are expected to recover to nominal levels on 16 Apr.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet.

.Forecast...
Unsettled to Active levels are expected, with periods of G1 (Minor)
storming likely, beginning late on 14 Apr and continuing through 15 Apr,
due to the passage of CMEs from 11 and 12 Apr, combined with CH HSS
influences. Quiet to unsettled levels are expected on 16 Apr as
conditions wane.


:Product: 08261230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Aug 26 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached moderate levels. Region 3796 (S04W33,
Dki/beta-gamma)
produced the strongest flare of the period, an M1.4 flare (R1-Minor) at
26/1141 UTC. Minor evolutions were seen mostly in the intermediate spots
of Regions 3796, 3790 (S13W67, Ekc/beta-gamma), 3799 (S09E02,
Eki/beta-gamma) and 3800 (S27W13, Eki/beta-gamma). The remaining regions
were relatively stable. Regions 3803 (N16E70, Dso/beta) and 3804
(S25E74, Hsx/alpha) were numbered as they further rotated onto visible
disk from the E limb. No Earth-directed CMEs were observed in available
coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
M-class flares (R1-R2, Minor-Moderate) are likely, with a chance for
X-class flares (R3-Strong), through 28 Aug due to the flare potential of
multiple complex regions on the visible disk.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has remained at background levels.
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
There is a slight chance for the greater than 10 MeV proton flux to
reach S1 (Minor) storm levels over 26-28 Aug. The greater than 2 MeV
electron flux is expected to continue at normal to moderate levels
throughout the period.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was at background levels. Total field
strength was steady at around 5 nT and the Bz component varied +/-4 nT.
Solar wind speed decreased from ~350 km/s to ~290 km/s over the course
of the day. Phi angle was positive.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are expected to be at or near background levels
on 26 Aug. Slightly enhanced solar wind conditions are possible over
27-28 Aug due to the anticipated glancing-blow arrival of a CME that
left the Sun on 23 Aug.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet levels.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is likely to continue at mostly quiet levels on 26
Aug. Periods of active conditions are possible over 27-28 Aug due to the
anticipated influence of the periphery of a CME that left the Sun on 23
Aug.


:Product: 12160030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Dec 16 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity increased to moderate levels (R1-Minor) due to an
impulsive M3.1/1n flare. The largest event of the period, this flare was
observed at 15/2024 UTC from Region 3920 (N22W42, Eao/beta). Numerous
C-class flares were also observed from this region, as well as from
Regions 3917 (S07W83, Dko/beta), 3921 (S06, L=358), 3922 (S18W03,
Cso/beta) and 3924 (S19W29, Dsi/beta-gamma). Little physical changes
were observed from these five regions. Region 3922 reemerged with new
spots, and new Region 3926 (S20E67, Hsx/alpha) was numbered.

A large filament, centered roughly near S20W75, lifted off beginning at
around 14/2200 UTC. The associated CME has been analyzed and is expected
to miss upstream of Earth. A full-halo CME, first observed off the SE
limb beginning at 15/1436 UTC, is believed to be a far-side event as no
clear source on the visible disk was discernable. Possibly associated
with this far-side CME was a Type II radio sweep at 15/1427 UTC with a
speed of 320 km/s. No Earth-directed CMEs were detected in available
data.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be at low levels, with a chance for R1-R2
(Minor-Moderate) events, over 16-18 Dec.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels over 16-18 Dec. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux
is expected to persist at background levels through 18 Dec.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment reflected positive polarity CH HSS
influences. Total field strength reached 13 nT and the Bz component
ranged +6/-10 nT. Solar wind speeds increased from about 330 km/s to 440
km/s. The phi angle was in a mostly positive orientation.

.Forecast...
Mildly enhanced solar wind conditions are expected over 16 Dec due to
positive polarity CH HSS influences. On 17 Dec, further enhancements are
possible due to persistent, yet waning CH HSS influences and the chance
for a possible glancing blow from one or more near-miss CMEs from 13-14
Dec. A gradual return to nominal conditions are expected on 18 Dec.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet and unsettled levels.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to be at quiet and unsettled levels
over 16 Dec due to positive polarity CH HSS influences. Periods of
active conditions are likely on 17 Dec due to waning CH HSS influences
and a possible glancing blow arrival of one or more CMEs from 13-14 Dec
that are expected to pass in close proximity to Earth. Quiet to
unsettled levels are expected on 18 Dec as possible CME influence wanes.


:Product: 07211230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Jul 21 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at moderate levels. Region 3744 (N15W77, Cao/beta)
produced the strongest event of the period as it rotated closer to the
limb, an M1.5/1n flare (R1-Minor) at 20/1849 UTC. This region also
produced an additional M.1 flare at 21/0355 with an associated CME off
the NW limb. Due to its close proximity to the limb, that CME is
expected to miss well west of Earth. Region 3751 (S09W22,
Ekc/beta-gamma-delta) remained the most complex on the visible disk and
developed some trailer spots over the past 24 hours. Region 3761
(S10W01, Dai/beta-gamma) also grew in area and spots. Region 3762
(S14E57, Dao/beta) fully rotated onto the visible disk. Only minor
changes were observed in the remaining ten spotted numbered regions on
the visible disk.

Beginning at approximately 20/1500 UTC, a DSF centered near N25E20 was
observed in GONG/H-Alpha imagery. No apparent CMEs were identified in
subsequent coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is likely to be moderate (R1-R2, Minor-Moderate) with a
slight chance for X-class flares (R3, Strong) on 21-23 Jul.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was steady at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal to
moderate levels on 21-23 Jul. There is a slight chance for S1 (Minor)
storm levels on 21-23 Jul.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were at nominal levels. Total field was between
2-6 nT and Bz was between +/- 4 nT. Solar wind speeds were at or below
350 km/s for the majority of the period. Phi was mostly in a negative
orientation.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are likely to experience CME influence over 21 Jul
from activity that occurred on the Sun late on 16 Jul. A return to
ambient conditions is likely over 22-23 Jul.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field may see G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storm levels 21 Jul
due to the influence of a CME that left the Sun late on 16 Jul. As CME
influence wanes, mostly quiet to unsettled levels are likely on 22-23
Jul.


:Product: 03271230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Mar 27 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels. Region 3615 (S13W48,
Fkc/beta-gamma-delta) was responsible for five M-class flares the
largest of which was a M1.9 flare at 26/1330 UTC. This AR continued to
be the largest, most complex region on the visible disk, and was
responsible for the majority of the activity. New spots were observed
trailing AR 3619 (N18W18, Dso/beta), but remain unnumbered at this time
as we await additional observatory reports. Region 3617 (S14W18,
Hsx/alpha) exhibited signs of decay, and Region 3623 (S19W55, L=223)
decayed to plage.

At approximately 26/1405 UTC a filament eruption just north of AR 3620
(S09E11, Hrx/alpha) was observed in GOES SUVI 304 angstroms. Seemingly,
a subsequent easterly, faint, narrow CME can first be seen in LASCO C2
coronagraph imagery around 26/1524 UTC. Modeling efforts suggest that a
weak, glancing blow at Earth may be possible by early 31 Mar.
Additionally, a more impressive, westerly CME was observed in LASCO C2
coronagraph imagery beginning near 27/0125 UTC. However, this event
appears to have originated from beyond the western limb and is therefore
not Earth-directed.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to continue at moderate
(R1-R2/Minor-Moderate) levels, with a chance for an X-class flares
(R3/Strong), over 27-29 Mar due primarily to the flare potential of
Region 3615.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux remained elevated, but below the 10
pfu threshold. The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to
moderate levels.

.Forecast...
A chance for S1 (Minor) solar radiation storms will persist through 29
Mar primarily due to the potential and location of AR 3615. The greater
than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal to moderate levels
on 27 Mar, with a chance to reach high levels beginning on 28 Mar.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters reflected waning influence of a coronal mass
ejection (CME) that left the Sun on 23 Mar. Total field was between 4-5
nT, and the Bz component was mostly northward or near neutral. Solar
wind speeds gradually decreased from ~650 km/s to just above 500 km/s by
the end of the period. Phi was predominantly positive while taking a few
brief excursions into a negative solar sector.

.Forecast...
Ambient-like solar wind conditions are expected to return by 28 Mar.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled.

.Forecast...
Quiet to unsettled periods are expected to continue for the remainder of
27 Mar as CME effects continue to wane. Mostly quiet conditions are
expected to prevail on 28 Mar with a return of isolated unsettled
periods by late on 29 Mar under negative polarity CH HSS effects.


:Product: 08130030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Aug 13 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity has remained at moderate levels with two M-Class flares
over the period. Region 3777 (S10W74, Dkc/beta-gamma) was responsible
for an M1.0 flare at 12/0848 and Region 3784 (N15E21, Dkc/beta-delta)
was responsible for an M1.2 at 12/2257 UTC. There are eleven Active
Regions on the visible disk with the majority of them experiencing minor
growth. The trailing spot in Region 3777 has sheared into two and has
become more magnetically complex. Region 3780 (S10W34,
Fki/beta-gamma-delta) remains the largest region but continues to
produce mostly C-Class flares. The other region of interest is Region
3784 because of its area increasing fairly quickly from spots expanding
out of the primary penumbra. The three aforementioned regions are the
primary drivers for increased flare probabilities moving forward.

Other activity included a filament eruption centered near N25W20
beginning at around 12/0300 UTC, though the bulk of material appeared to
have been reabsorbed. There have been no Earth-directed CMEs detected in
available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be at moderate to high levels, with
M-class flares (R1-R2, Minor-Moderate) expected and a slight chance for
X-class flares (R3-Strong) through 15 Aug.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has remained at background levels.
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
There is a slight chance for S1 (Minor) conditions through 15 Aug as a
few magnetically complex regions remain in geoeffective locations. The
greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to remain at normal to
moderate levels over 13-15 Aug.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was enhanced throughout the period due to
persistent CME effects. Total field reached 23 nT and the Bz component
was southward, by as much as -20 nT, for prolonged periods after 12/0100
UTC. The Bz component has been on a gradual rise since roughly 15 UTC
but remains negative. Solar wind speeds increased from around 475 km/s
early in the period to a peak of 535 km/s, it declined and has remained
around 440 km/s.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are expected to remain enhanced through 13 Aug
with sustained, but weakening CME influences.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
Geomagnetic field activity reached G4 (Severe) Storm Levels at late in
the 12-15 UTC synoptic period. It has remained at G3 (Strong) Levels
through much of the period.

.Forecast...
G2 (Moderate) Geomagnetic storm levels are expected to continue into the
early parts of 13 Aug from continued CME influences. Active to Unsettled
levels are expected thereafter, with quiet to unsettled levels on 15 Aug
as CME effects diminish.

-Bri


:Product: 11220030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Nov 22 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity returned to low levels with only C-class flares observed.
Region 3901 (S07E24, Dai/beta-gamma) was responsible for nearly all of
the flare activity throughout the period. This region exhibited growth
in its trailing spot area and maintained its gamma configuration. New
Regions 3903 (S10W17, Cai/beta), 3904 (S13W63, Cao/beta), and 3905
S09E77, Hax/alpha) developed and were numbered this period. The
remaining regions were either stable or displayed slight decay.

Two large CMEs were observed in coronagraph imagery. The first was
observed in LASCO C2 imagery at approximately 21/1224 UTC. This CME was
associated with a large prominence that lifted off the SE limb. Analysis
indicated a miss well ahead of Earth.

The second was a large, explosive eruption that occurred at
approximately 21/1800 UTC. This event was noted in SUVI imagery from
beyond the west limb, likely from old Region 3989 (S09, L=005). The
associated CME was first seen in LASCO C2 imagery at 21/1812 UTC. With
this event originated well beyond the west limb, it is not expected to
have an Earth-directed component.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low, with a chance for M-class flares
(R1/R2-Minor/Moderate) and a slight chance of X-class (R3-Strong) events
22-24 Nov.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was normal to moderate levels. The
greater than 10 MeV proton flux reached S1 (Minor) levels, reaching a
peak value of 43 pfu thus far. The 100 MeV proton levels reached a peak
value of 7 pfu at 21/2010 UTC.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to
continue at S1 (Minor) levels for 22 Nov. By 23 Nov, levels are expected
to diminish to a chance for S1 thresholds, with conditions returning to
near background levels by 24 Nov.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were indicative of a likely SSBC as the
anticipated negative polarity CH HSS moved into a geoeffective position.
Solar wind speeds averaged near 400 km/s, total field strength ranged
between 2-10nT, and the Bz component fluctuated between +/-7 nT. The phi
angle was predominantly in a negative position, with occasional
oscillations into a positive orientation.

.Forecast...
Solar wind conditions are anticipated to become elevated on 22-24 Nov
due to negative polarity CH HSS influences.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to be mostly quiet to unsettled, with
a chance for an isolated active period, on 22-24 Nov due to anticipated
CH HSS effects.


:Product: 08200030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Aug 20 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity continued at moderate levels. Region 3796 (S03E55,
Dac/beta-gamma) exhibited slight growth and produced an M1.4/Sf
(R1-Minor) flare at 19/0000 UTC and an M3.7 (R1) at 19/2148 UTC, the
largest of the period. Region 3785 (S14W63, Cai/beta) contributed an
M1.3 flare (R1-Minor) at 19/0936 UTC as it edged towards the western
limb. Region 3790 (S12E19, Dkc/beta-gamma) almost added to the M-flare
mix, producing a C9.8/Sf flare at 19/2016 UTC. This region developed
additional intermediate spots and continued to evolve over the course of
the day. Multiple other regions produced low-level C-class flares, too
numerous to list. The majority of the spot groups displayed at least
slight growth during the period, though none appeared to be associated
with any Earth-directed CMEs.

.Forecast...
M-class flares (R1-R2, Minor-Moderate) are likely, with a slight chance
for X-class flares (R3-Strong), through 22 Aug.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has remained at background levels.
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
There is a slight chance for the greater than 10 MeV proton flux to
reach S1 (Minor) storm levels over 20-22 Aug. The greater than 2 MeV
electron flux is expected to continue at normal to moderate levels
throughout the period.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was near background levels this period. Total
field strength averaged near 7 nT, the Bz component saw minor southward
deflections to -7 nT, and the solar wind speed ranged between 360-460
km/s. Phi was in a mostly positive orientation

.Forecast...
Nominal solar wind conditions are expected to prevail on 20-21 Aug. On
22 Aug, possible interaction with a CH HSS could bring about weak
enhancements in the IMF.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to unsettled levels.

.Forecast...
Mostly quiet conditions are expected on 20-21 Aug. By 22 Aug, a weak CH
HSS could potentially move into a geoeffective position, increasing the
chances to of additional unsettled to active periods.


:Product: 11101230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Nov 10 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached moderate levels. Region 3889 (S10E38) produced an
impulsive M4.2 flare (R1/Minor) at 10/0015 UTC; the largest event of the
period. The region exhibited some growth around its leader spot. The
remaining active regions on the visible disk were either stable or in
decay. No Earth-directed CMEs were observed in available coronagraph
imagery.

.Forecast...
M-class flares (R1-R2/Minor-Moderate) are likely, with a slight chance
for an X-class flare (R3-Strong), through 12 Nov.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels and the
greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
There is a slight chance for the greater than 10 MeV proton flux to
reach S1 (Minor) levels over 10-12 Nov. The greater than 2 MeV electron
flux is expected to continue at normal to moderate levels through 12
Nov.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment remained enhanced this period. Total field
strength ranged from 4-13 nT and the Bz reached as far south as -11 nT.
Solar wind speeds averaged around 400 km/s throughout the period.

.Forecast...
Enhanced solar wind conditions are expected to prevail over 10-12 Nov
due to CH HSS influences.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field reached G1 (Minor) storm levels following a
prolonged period of southward Bz.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to reach active levels on 10-11 Nov,
and quiet to unsettled levels on 12 Nov, due to CH HSS influences.


:Product: 08010030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Aug 01 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was high due to a number of M-class flares to include
three greater than M5 events. Thirteen designated sunspot groups were
present on the visible solar disk and background X-ray flux was solidly
at upper C-class levels. The main regions of note today were 3768
(S16W71, Fkc/beta-gamma-delta); 3765 (S11W33, Ekc/beta-gamma-delta);
3772 (S25E48, Eai/beta); and 3774 (S06E70, Eki/beta-gamma). Region 3762
(S11W87, Dac/beta-gamma) rotated nearly beyond the limb. Region 3768
underwent some growth in the leader, but decreased intermediate spot
coverage. It was the source of the largest flare of the day, an M7.7
(R2/Moderate) at 31/0646 UTC. It also produced an M5.3 (R2) that peaked
at 31/1837 UTC. Region 3772 underwent some growth in the trailer section
and was the source of M-class flares, to include an M6.0/1n at 31/1305
UTC. Region 3774 produced an M4.7/Sf (R1/Minor) at 31/0523 UTC as it
rotated further into Earth-view and revealed itself as a larger spot
complex. New Region 3775 (N17E60, Cso/beta) was assigned to a recently
emerged small group.

Plenty of radio burst activity was noted today, but nothing prolific.
One of the bursts equated to a tenflare on 2695 MHz which reached 310
sfu (solar flux units). Later, the M5.3 flare from Region 3768 was
associated with Type II (est velocity of 326 km/s) and IV radio sweeps
indicative of CME movement. That same flare was associated with another
tenflare (900 sfu).

Several new CMEs were observed in available coronagraph imagery, but
initial analyses suggest none are likely to have Earth-directed
components. However, the most recent M5.3 flare will likely have a CME
associated with it, based on the USAF observatory reported radio sweeps.
That data will be analyzed to ensure no glancing blows are possible.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be moderate to high, with continuing
M-class flares (R1-R2; Minor-Moderate) and a chance for X-class activity
(R3/Strong) 1-3 Aug due to the number of magnetically complex sunspot
groups present on the visible solar disk. While 3768 will rotate out of
view over the next few days, a new region, as indicated in NSO/GONG
helioseismology, is likely to rotate into view on day three to four.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was normal, while the greater than
10 MeV proton flux remained at background.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is anticipated to continue at
normal to moderate levels on 1-3 Aug, with a chance for high levels on
2-3 Aug due to possible CME related effects. A chance for the greater
than 10 MeV proton flux to reach S1 (Minor) solar radiation storm levels
will persist through 02 Aug given ongoing limb activity primarily from
AR3762 and AR3768. In addition, the complex of regions, to include
AR3766, will be rotating into a more favorable location on the southwest
limb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were indicative of CME arrival and passage. While
it is unknown with certainty, we believe this to be an expected CME from
28 July. Total IMF strength increased initially at 31/1042 UTC and
promptly again at 31/1347 UTC and peaked at 16 nT. The Bz component
varied notably upon CME arrival, but eventually seemed to settle more
into a southward orientation by 31/1755 UTC and eventually reached a
maximum deviation of -13 nT. Solar wind speed only increased mildly from
~400 km/s to between 450-500 km/s with CME arrival and continued
passage. The phi angle was firmly positive until the secondary IMF
enhancement, when it varied between sectors.

.Forecast...
Solar wind conditions are expected to remain enhanced on 1 Aug as CME
passage continues. Additionally, we are still anticipating another CME
arrival (from 29 Jul) that will likely keep the solar wind field
enhanced. Conditions should begin weakening on 2 Aug with a return
to a more ambient-like solar wind field by 3 Aug. However, CMEs continue
to occur, so any future forecast changes should not be surprising.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to active, with an isolated period of G1
(Minor) storming during the 31/1800-2100 UTC timeframe, in varied
response to CME arrival and passage.

.Forecast...
G2 (Moderate) storm levels remain likely on 1 Aug due to continuing CME
passage and the anticipated arrival from the 29 Jul CME. Conditions are
anticipated to decrease to active levels on 2 Aug as CME influences
wane, with a return to mainly quiet conditions on 3 Aug - pending any
new CME influences.


:Product: 08141230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Aug 14 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels following an X1.0/2b flare at 14/0640
UTC from Region 3784 (N14E01, Dkc/beta-gamma-delta). Discreet radio
signatures associated with this flare included Type II (est 516 km/s)
and Type IV radio sweeps, as well as a 10cm Radio burst (500 sfu).
Region 3784 continued to evolve, with the delta configuration area
growing and the smaller leader spots starting to separate from the main
spot. This region also produced an M1.0/Sf flare at 13/1729 UTC and an
M4.1/1n flare at 13/2344 UTC, as well as several C-class flares. Region
3777 (S09W87, Dkc/beta-gamma) added an M1.3 flare at 13/2245 UTC and an
M4.4 flare at 14/0402 UTC as it made its way around the western limb.
Region 3780 (S08W55, Ekc/beta-gamma-delta) exhibited signs of decay and
slight magnetic simplification as it neared the western limb. The
remaining regions were stable and inactive.

Currently, no Earth-directed CMEs were visible in available coronagraph
imagery. However, analysis will be conducted on the halo CME associated
with the X1 flare as more imagery becomes available.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be at moderate levels, with M-class flares
(R1-R2, Minor-Moderate) expected, and a chance for X-class flares
(R3-Strong) through 16 Aug.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has remained at background levels.
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
There is a slight, but increasing chance for S1 (Minor) conditions on 14
Aug following the X1 flare from near center disk. The increased chances
are likely to continue through 16 Aug as a few magnetically complex
regions remain in geoeffective locations. The greater than 2 MeV
electron flux is expected to remain at normal to moderate levels over
14-16 Aug.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment returned to near nominal levels. Total field
decreased from near 15 nT to average near 5 nT the latter half of the
period. The Bz component varied between -7 nT and 10 nT through 14/0200
UTC, then fluctuated slightly between +/-2 nT thereafter. Solar wind
speeds averaged near 400 km/s throughout the period. Phi angle was
mostly positive with isolated oscillations into a negative position.

.Forecast...
Near nominal values are expected through 15 Aug before potential CH HSS
influence from a northern latitude coronal hole are anticipated to
become geoeffective starting 16 Aug. Weak enhancements in solar wind
parameters are possible if the HSS connects with Earths magnetic field.
However, confidence remains low on its effects.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
Geomagnetic field activity was at quiet to unsettled levels, with
isolated active conditions, due to residual CME activity.

.Forecast...
Quiet to unsettled levels are expected for the remainder of 14 Aug as
residual CME activity diminishes. A northern latitude coronal hole
is anticipated to become geoeffective 16 Aug which could lead to a
slight enhancement of the geomagnetic field, but confidence is low at
this time.


:Product: 03100030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Mar 10 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at low levels with a few C-class flares from Region
3599 (S13W28, Dai/beta-gamma-delta), the largest a C6.3/Sf at 09/0119
UTC. The region grew slightly this period and regained a delta
configuration in its leader spots. The remaining five other active
regions were mostly quiet and stable.

At about 10/0200 UTC, an 8 degree long, E-W oriented filament, centered
near S44E17, lifted off the disk. Weak CME signatures were detected off
the SSE limb on SOHO/LASCO imagery. Analysis and model run output
suggested no Earth-directed component. No additional Earth-directed CMEs
were observed in available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low, with a slight chance for M-class
(R1 - Minor) flares on 10-12 Mar.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal to
moderate levels 10-12 Mar. Proton flux is expected to remain at
background levels.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters reflected a slightly enhanced environment, likely
associated with a negative polarity CH HSS and possible week CME
influence. Total field strength reached 6 nT and the Bz component
reached as far south as -5 nT. Solar wind speeds gradually declined from
~485 km/s to ~425 km/s over the past 24 hours. Phi angle was in a mostly
negative orientation.

.Forecast...
Slowly diminishing conditions are expected on 10 Mar as CH HSS/CME
influence eventually dissipates. On 11-12 Mar, enhancements are expected
again under the influence of another negative polarity CH HSS.

Geospace                                                                

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to active levels.

.Forecast...
Quiet to unsettled conditions are expected on 10 Mar, with combined CH
HSS influences and glancing CME effects. Continued quiet to unsettled
periods are expected on 11-12 Mar as a new negative polarity CH HSS
becomes effective.


:Product: 11010030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Nov 01 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels. The largest event was an X2.0/3b
flare (R3-Strong) at 31/2120 UTC from Region 3878 (N16E23,
Eki/beta-gamma-delta). In addition, seven M-class flares (R1-Minor) were
observed from Regions 3875 (N28W41, Dai/beta), 3876 (S06W46,
Dki/beta-gamma), and 3878. Growth was observed in Regions 3875 and 3876,
and new Region 3880 (S13E55, Axx/alpha) was numbered. The remaining
regions were either stable or in decay. Analysis of a CME associated
with flaring from Region 3877 (S16W04, Axx/alpha) at around 31/1252 UTC
resulted in a possible glancing blow on 03 Nov.
 
.Forecast...
M-class flares are expected, with a chance for X-class flares, through
03 Nov.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux persisted at S1 (Minor) levels
throughout the period. The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at
normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to continue at S1
(Minor) levels into early 01 Nov. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is
expected to be elevated above background levels over 02-03 Nov, but
remain below event threshold. The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is
expected to continue at normal to moderate levels through 03 Nov.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Enhanced solar wind conditions prevailed through much of the period,
with an increase in interplanetary magnetic field observed late in the
day. Total field strength reached 9 nT and the Bz component reached -8
nT. Solar wind speeds ranged between 450-600 km/s. The phi angle was
predominately negative.

.Forecast...
Nominal solar wind conditions are expected to prevail on 01 Nov. Mildly
enhanced solar wind parameters are likely on 02 Nov due to positive
polarity CH HSS influences. Weakly enhanced conditions are expected on
03 Nov due to continued, but waning CH HSS influences and the possible
glancing blow arrival of the 31 Oct CME.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet and active.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to be mostly quiet on 01 Nov. Quiet to
active levels are likely on 02 Nov due to positive polarity CH HSS
influences. Quiet to active levels are likely on 03 Nov due to
continued, but waning CH HSS influences and the possible glancing blow
arrival of a CME from 31 Oct.


:Product: 12130030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Dec 13 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar flare activity reached moderate levels due to a pair of impulsive
M-class (R1-Minor) flares from Region 3922 (S18E36, Cao/beta). The first
was an M2.2 flare observed at 12/1743 UTC and the second was an M1.6
flare observed at 12/2107 UTC. Region 3917 (S08W42,
Dkc/beta-gamma-delta), the largest region on the disk, produced numerous
C-class events this period. This region showed some penumbral growth.
Region 3920 (N22W02, Eki/beta-delta) was quiet and stable this period.
New Region 3924 (S20E12, Cro/beta) was numbered. All other regions have
been quiet
and stable.

A halo CME was observed in LASCO C2 imagery beginning at 11/2124 UTC.
The ejecta was determined to have originated from behind the limb, so no
Earth-directed component is expected.

Additionally, a pair of small filaments lifted off in the NW and SW at
about 12/0930 UTC. A narrow CME was observed in LASCO C2 imagery off the
SW beginning at 12/1000 UTC. Analysis and model output of this CME
suggested there was no Earth directed component.

Beginning at 12/1746 UTC, ejecta could be seen lifting off associated
with the M2.2 flare. Analysis will be conducted as imagery becomes
available.

.Forecast...
R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) radio blackouts are likely on 13-15 Dec based
primarily on the flare potential of Regions 3917, 3920 and 3922 (S18E48,
Cso/beta).

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux increased to high levels with a
maximum flux of 1,180 pfu observed at 12/1450 UTC. The greater than 10
MeV proton flux remained at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to reach high levels on
13 Dec and decrease back to normal to moderate levels on 14-15 Dec. The
greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to remain at background
levels over 13-15 Dec.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were at nominal levels. Total field was mostly
steady at around 3-6 nT with a variable Bz component between +/-5 nT.
Solar wind speeds varied between about 340-400 km/s. The phi angle
remained mostly in the positive (away from the Sun) orientation.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are expected to remain at nominal levels on 13-14
Dec. On 15 Dec, an increase in solar wind parameters is likely due to
influence from an equatorial, positive polarity CH HSS.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field has been at mostly quiet levels with an isolated
unsettled period.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is likely to remain at mostly quiet levels on
13-14 Dec, increasing to isolated unsettled periods on 15 Dec due to
positive polarity CH HSS effects.


:Product: 03131230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Mar 13 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity remained at low levels. Region 3599 (S12W73,
Dao/beta-gamma) continued to produce most of the flare activity, though
it did exhibit signs of decay and lost its delta configuration. It was
responsible for the largest flare of the period, a C2.7 flare at 12/1815
UTC. Weak C class activity was also observed from Region 3607 (S18E39,
Dao/beta) and new Region 3610 (S16E75, Hsx/alpha). New Region 3608
(N11E48, Axx/alpha) and new Region 3609 (N06E55, Axx/alpha) were also
numbered. The remaining two active regions showed further decay. No
Earth-directed CMEs were observed in available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low, with a slight chance for M-class
(R1 - Minor) flares, on 13-15 Mar.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux reached moderate levels with a peak
of 555 pfu at 12/1725 UTC. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was near
background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal to
moderate levels on 13-15 Mar. Proton flux is expected to remain at
background levels.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were indicative of a near-background solar wind
regime through about 13/0445 UTC. Total field strength averaged near 5
nT, Bz had a few, minor southward deflections to near -5 nT, while solar
wind speeds varied between about 425 km/s to about 460 km/s. Phi angle
was in a mostly positive orientation. After 13/0445 UTC, Bt increased to
7 nT and the Bz component indicated some southward deviations to -7 nT.
The phi angle displayed some negative orientation.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are expected to remain slightly enhanced on 13
Mar. On 14-15 Mar, the solar wind environment is expected to see
slightly more enhanced conditions as a negative polarity CH HSS moves
into a geoeffective position.

Geospace                                                                

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to unsettled levels.

.Forecast...
Quiet to isolated unsettled levels are expected on 13 Mar. By 14-15 Mar,
a new negative polarity CH HSS is expected to move into a geo-effective
position, bringing in quiet to unsettled conditions, with a chance for
isolated active periods. There is a slight chance for possible G1
(Minor) storm levels on 14-15 Mar if the CME from 10 Mar passes near
enough to Earth. This is a very low confidence forecast at this time.


:Product: 07091230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Jul 09 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at low levels. A region just beyond the SE limb
near S25 produced an M1.1/Sf flare at 08/1241 UTC. Region 3734 (N08,
L=299) decayed to plage, and Region 3739 (N04W56, Axx/alpha) remerged as
a single spot. Region 3738 (S10E15, Eki/beta-gamma) remained the
largest, most magnetically complex region on the visible disk. This AR
was responsible for a majority of the C-class flare activity with a C6.7
flare at 09/0822 UTC being the largest. Regions 3742 (S24E55, Axx/alpha)
and 3743 (S09E62, Cao/beta)  were numbered this period, and the
remaining active regions were relatively stable.

A westerly CME associated with a surge followed by field line movement
near AR 3739 as observed by GOES SUVI 284 imagery was first seen in C2
coronagraph imagery at approximately 08/2136 UTC. Modeling of this event
suggests a miss well ahead of Earths orbit. Another CME associated with
C-class flaring from AR 3738 was first observed by C2 coronagraph
imagery just around 09/0624 UTC. Analysis and modeling of this event is
currently underway.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low over 09-11 Jul, with a chance for
isolated M-class (R1-R2/Minor-Moderate) flare activity.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was steady at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels over 09-11 Jul. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux
is expected to persist at background levels through 11 Jul.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were mildly enhanced, possibly due to weak CIR
activity. Total field decreased from 8-9 nT to 4-5 nT over the course of
the period. The Bz component was benign, ranging +/- 4 nT. Wind speeds
decreased from ~425-430 km/s to ~375 km/s, and phi rotated between solar
sectors.

.Forecast...
Slightly enhanced conditions are expected to continue over the course of
09 Jul due to weak positive polarity CH HSS influence. Another
enhancement is expected mid to late on 11 Jul as a negative polarity CH
HSS is likely to become geoeffective.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled.

.Forecast...
Quiet to unsettled levels are expected on 09 Jul due to weak HSS
activity. Mostly quiet conditions are expected on 10 Jul. By mid to late
on 11 Jul, unsettled to active levels are expected due to negative
polarity CH HSS onset.


:Product: 05041230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 May 04 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels. Region 3663 (N26W12,
Ekc/beta-gamma-delta) produced an M9.1/1b flare (R2/Moderate) at 04/0619
UTC, the strongest of the period. A Type II (est. 950 km/s) and Type IV
radio sweep along with a Tenflare were observed with the event. A CME is
suspected to be associated with the flare but additional coronagraph
imagery is need for conformation and analysis. This region and Region
3664 (S19E32, Ekc/beta-delta) continued to be most complex. Region 3666
(N07E10, Dai/beta-gamma-delta) also exhibited notable growth.

Other eruptive activity included a C3.9 flare at 03/2037 UTC from an
unspotted area to the east of Region 3666 (N07E09,
Dai/beta-gamma-delta). This event also produced a Type II (est. 392
km/s) and Type IV radio sweep. An associated CME, first seen in
SOHO/LASCO C3 imagery at 03/2218 UTC,  was analyzed and modeled. The
results suggested the slow-moving periphery should pass by Earth around
09 May.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be at moderate levels
(R1-R2/Minor-Moderate), with a chance for X-class flares (R3/Strong or
greater), over 04-06 May.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was steady at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels over 04-06 May. There is a slight chance for the
greater than 10 MeV proton flux to reach S1 (Minor) storm levels over
04-06 May due to the flare potential of Regions 3663 and 3664.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind parameters returned to nominal levels over the past 24
hours. Total magnetic field strength was at or below 5 nT. Solar wind
speeds declined from the low 400s to near 370/km/s by the periods end.
Phi angle transitioned from negative to positive polarity after 03/1830
UTC.

.Forecast...
Mildly enhanced solar wind conditions and positive polarity CH HSS
influences are likely to prevail over 04-06 May. A stronger
disturbance is expected late on 05 May and 06 May due to the anticipated
arrival of the 03 May CME associated with the X1.6 flare from Region
3663.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field may reach unsettled and active levels on 04 May
due to positive polarity CH HSS influences. Active conditions and
periods of G1 (Minor) storming are likely on 05 May due to continued
positive polarity CH HSS influences in addition to the anticipated
arrival of the 03 May CME late in the day. Periods of G1-G2
(Minor-Moderate) storming are likely on 06 May due to continued CME
activity and CH HSS influences.


:Product: 06260030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Jun 26 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
NOTE: GOES X-Ray Flux, Electron Flux, and Proton Flux data went offline
at 24/2125 UTC due to a network outage. Data began to come in around
25/1200 UTC but has had a few intermittent gaps. Work is in progress to
restore services.

Solar activity reached moderate levels due to an isolated M1.0 flare at
254/1245 UTC from Region 3723 (S19E44, Fai/beta-gamma-delta). The Region
remained the most magnetically complex spot group, however the region
changed little over the last 24 hours. Region 3720 (S06E04,
Dai/beta-gamma) showed some decay in its leader spots during the
previous 12 hours. New Region 3728 (S25E55, Bxo/beta) was numbered.

Initial modeling of the CME associated with the 35 degree filament
eruption centered near S19W58 that was observed lifting off at 24/2310
UTC returned with flanking influences at Earth by late on 28 Jun.
Additional analysis and modeling of this event is ongoing. A second
filament erupted near S30W12 with an associated CME visible off of the
southeast limb. A model run for that event is also in progress.

.Forecast...
M-class flares (R1-R2/Minor-Moderate) are likely on 26-28 Jun due
primarily to the flare potential of Regions 3723 and 3720.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was near background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal to
moderate levels on 26-28 Jun. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is
expected to be at or near background levels on 26-28 Jun.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters reflected possible weak transient activity. The
geomagnetic field increased from 6 to near 9 nT at the end of the
period. A prolonged period of southward Bz reaching -7 nT was observed
between 25/0035-0930 UTC. Solar wind speed ranged from 268-357 km/s. Phi
angle was mostly negative.
 
.Forecast...
Mostly ambient-like solar wind conditions are expected to prevail
through 27 Jun. An enhancement from the large filament eruption from
late on 24 Jun is likely by late 28 Jun.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled.

.Forecast...
Mostly quiet conditions are expected to prevail over 26-27 Jun and
through most of 28 Jun. Active conditions are expected, with a chance
for G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming, by late 28 Jun with the arrival of
flanking effects from the 24 Jun filament eruption.


:Product: 11090030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Nov 09 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached moderate levels. Region 3883 (S06W20) produced an
M1.5/1n flare at 08/0301 UTC; the largest event of the period. Minor
growth was noted in Region 3883 while the remaining regions were either
stable or in decay. No Earth-directed CMEs were detected in available
coronagraph data.

.Forecast...
M-class flares are expected, with a chance for X-class flares, over
09-11 Nov.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels and the
greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
There is a slight chance for the greater than 10 MeV proton flux to
reach S1 (Minor) levels over 09-11 Nov. The greater than 2 MeV electron
flux is expected to continue at normal to moderate levels through 11
Nov.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was mildly enhanced this period. Total field
strength values ranged between 2-16 nT and the Bz component was
sustained southward, by as much as -12 nT, after 08/1700 UTC. Solar wind
speeds were steady between 350-415 km/s.

.Forecast...
Enhanced solar wind conditions are expected to prevail over 09-11 Nov
due to CH HSS influences.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field ranged from quiet to active levels.

.Forecast...
Periods of active conditions are expected on 09-11 Nov due to CH HSS
influences.


:Product: 12191230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Dec 19 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was reached moderate levels. Region 3924 (S18W76,
Eko/beta-gamma) produced an M1.6 flare at 19/1038 UTC. Region 3927
(S08E62, Dai/beta) produced several C-class flares. Region 3922 (S19W47,
Dai/beta) increased in area, but was inactive. The remaining regions
were either stable or in decay. No Earth-directed CMEs were detected in
available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
There is an increasing chance for R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) events over
19-21 Dec as Region 3927 rotates fully onto the visible disk.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels through 21 Dec. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux
is expected to persist at background levels over 19-21 Dec.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment indicated continued but waning CME influence.
Total field gradually decreased from 8 nT down to 4 nT by the end of
the period with variable Bz. Solar wind speeds decreased from ~515 km/s
to ~430 km/s. Phi was negative.

.Forecast...
A gradual return to ambient conditions is likely on 19-21 Dec.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to active due to the aforementioned CME
effects.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to continue at quiet to active levels
through on 19 Dec as CME effects wane. A return to mostly quiet
conditions is expected on 20-21 Dec.


:Product: 08231230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Aug 23 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached moderate levels. Region 3801 (N07E56, Cso/beta)
produced the largest flare of the period, an M3.4 at 23/0341 UTC with an
accompanying type II sweep (est 347 km/s). This region continued to
exhibit slight growth. Region 3800 (S28E24, Cao/beta) produced an M1.0
flare at 23/0418 UTC as it also underwent slight growth. Region 3790
(S12W28, Dkc/beta-gamma) remains the largest spot group on the visible
disk, but has been relatively quiet throughout the period. Region 3796
(S02E06, Dki/beta-gamma) developed additional intermediate spots.

A CME was observed in LASCO C2 imagery off the west starting near
23/0224 UTC. This is possibly associated with a C5.9 flare from Region
3794 (N19W42, Dao/beta) at 23/0203 UTC. A type II sweep was associated
with an estimated speed of 236 km/s. The bulk of this CME is expected
to be far to the west, but analysis is ongoing to determine if there is
an Earth-directed component. No other potentially Earth-directed CMEs
were observed.

.Forecast...
M-class flares (R1-R2, Minor-Moderate) remain likely, with a slight
chance for X-class flares (R3-Strong) persisting through 25 Aug.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has remained at background levels.
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.

.Forecast...
There is a slight chance for the greater than 10 MeV proton flux to
reach S1 (Minor) storm levels over 23-25 Aug. The greater than 2 MeV
electron flux is expected to continue at normal to moderate levels
throughout the period.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment continued to reflected an enhancement in the
IMF. Total field strength reached 12 nT, the Bz component deviated
southward near to a maximum of -10 nT. Solar wind speeds were between
~350-390 km/s. Phi was in a mostly positive orientation.

.Forecast...
Weak interaction with the CH HSS should diminish by late on 23 Aug,
decreasing the chances for any weak enhancements in the IMF. A return to
a mostly nominal solar regime is expected on 24-25 Aug as the CH HSS
moves from its geoeffective position.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to unsettled levels.

.Forecast...
Unsettled levels are still likely early on 23 Aug, but diminishing weak
CH HSS influence should lead to mostly quiet conditions on 24-25 Aug.


:Product: 11240030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Nov 24 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity continued at moderate levels with additional M-class
flares observed. The first was an M1.1/2n flare at 23/1607 UTC, produced
by Region 3901 (S07W07, Cao/beta-gamma). The second event was an M1.1
flare that originated from just beyond the NE limb at 23/1810 UTC, along
with a few C-class flares. No obvious CMEs were associated with either
of these events. Shortly following the second M-flare, Region 3898
(S15W69, Cao/beta) produced a C5.4 flare at 23/1920 UTC. Coronal dimming
was observed in SUVI 195 imagery that correlates to a CME first observed
in LASCO C2 imagery at 23/1924 UTC. Limited imagery is available at this
time, but a thorough analysis will be conducted as information becomes
available to determine if there is an Earth-directed component. Region
3898 was also responsible for several other C-class flares as it made
its way towards the west limb.

Region 3906 (S16E59, Dai/beta-gamma) was the only region to show any
development, adding intermediate spots as well as additional peripheral
spots near the large trailing spot. It was responsible for a few C-class
flares early in the period, the largest being a C7.0 flare at 23/0320
UTC. New Region 3907 (S21E15, Cro/beta) formed and was numbered, with
the remaining regions showing little change.

Pending results from the modeling of the aforementioned CME, no
Earth-directed CMEs were observed in available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low, with M-class flares
(R1/R2-Minor/Moderate) likely, and a slight chance for X-class
(R3-Strong) events 24-26 Nov.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux returned to background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux levels are
expected to remain at background conditions on 24-26 Nov.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters reflected weak, negative polarity CH HSS
influence. Solar wind speeds ranged +/- 25 km/s of 400 km/s. Total field
was primarily 7-8 nT, and the Bz component underwent a handful of
southward deflections, reaching a minimum of -8 nT. Phi was
predominantly negative.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are expected to remain slightly enhanced on 24 Nov
as negative polarity CH HSS influences persist. By 25 Nov, conditions
are expected to decrease to near background as the CH moves out of a
geoeffective position. Ambient levels are expected to return on 26 Nov.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to be quiet to unsettled, with a
chance for isolated active periods on 24 Nov due to CH HSS influence. By
25-26 Nov, mostly quiet conditions are expected to return as the CH
moves out of a geoeffective position.


:Product: 10241230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Oct 24 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels. An X3.3/sf flare was observed at
24/0357 UTC from Region 3869 (S17E64, Ehi/beta-gamma). Associated type
II (601 km/s) and type IV radio emissions occurred, as well as an
asymmetric  halo CME that was first visible off the SW in C2 imagery at
24/0348 UTC. Due to the location of the source region, the bulk of the
CME is expected to be to the S and E of Earth. However, some flanking
influence is likely according to preliminary modelling efforts. Analysis
of this event for timing is ongoing at the time of this summary. This
region was also responsible for an M1.2/sf flare at 24/1029 UTC and
several C-class flares during the period. The other spotted regions were
unremarkable.

.Forecast...
Solar flare activity is expected to be at Minor to Moderate (R1-R2)
levels 24-26 Oct with a slight chance for R3-Strong levels as more
magnetically complex regions emerge in the SE part of the disk. Region
3869, formerly 3842, was responsible for four X-Class flares on its last
transit.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux remained at normal to moderate
levels. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux remained near background
levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal to
moderate levels and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to
remain at background levels 24-26 Oct.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters have become slightly enhanced over the period as a
weak positive polarity CH became geoeffective. Total magnetic field was
5-12 nT with the Bz component fluctuating between +7/-8 nT. Wind speeds
rose from around 320 km/s to 440 km/s before settling to near 375 km/s.
The phi angle has remained in the positive sector.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are expected to remain slightly enhanced 24-25 Oct
with weak CH influence. Nominal conditions are expected on 26 Oct.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to active levels.

.Forecast...
Unsettled to active levels are expected on 24-25 Oct due to weak CH
influence. Quiet conditions are expected on 26 Oct under a nominal solar
wind.


:Product: 03151230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2024 Mar 15 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at low levels. Multiple long-duration C-class
eruptions were associated with activity near Region 3599 (S13, L=067) as
it rotated beyond the W limb. The largest was a C6.0 flare at 15/0610
UTC. Associated with the flare activity were multiple CME signatures in
SOHO/LASCO C2 imagery. As the region is now on the farside of the Sun,
the ejecta is expected to head westward and upstream of Earth.

Region 3612 (N23E51, Axx/alpha) was recently numbered but remained
mostly quiet throughout the period. The remaining three spotted regions
were stable and quiet.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low with a slight chance for M-class
flares over 15-16 Mar primarily due to the eruptive potential of Region
3599 as it rotates further beyond the W limb.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was slight above background
levels due to recent activity from old Region 3599.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal to
moderate levels on 15-17 Mar. The greater than 10MeV proton flux is
expected to remain elevated above background levels for the next few
days.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind conditions were enhanced due to positive polarity CH HSS
influences. Solar wind speeds were in gradual decline and ranged 400-475
km/s. Total magnetic field strength steadily decline from 8 nT to 4 nT
by the end of the reporting period. Phi angle was oriented in the
positive sector.

.Forecast...
Enhanced solar wind conditions are expected to prevail over 15-17 Mar
due to continued CH HSS influences.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to active levels due to CH HSS
influences.

.Forecast...
Periods of active conditions are expected on 15 Mar, and quiet to
unsettled levels are expected over 16-17 Mar, due to continued CH HSS
influences.


:Product: 01191230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 19 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at moderate levels with M-class flares (R1-Minor)
observed. Region 3964 (N06W61, Eki/beta-gamma) produced a M2.4 flare at
19/0332 UTC, which was the largest of the period. AR 3964 was
responsible for the majority of the C-class flare activity as well as it
maintained a gamma magnetic configuration. Regions 3959 (N19W15,
Cko/beta) and 3961 (S09E05, Ekc/beta-gamma) tacked on C-class flares as
well with the latter presenting mixed polarities in its intermediate
penumbra. Region 3968 (S18W73, Bxo/beta) was numbered this period after
producing a C2.0 flare at 19/0203 UTC. New spots were noted near S08E75,
but went unnumbered as we await observatory reports. No Earth-directed
CMEs were observed in available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) events are likely, with a chance for R3 or
greater events, over 19-21 Jan.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels through 21 Jan. There is a slight chance for the
greater than 10 MeV proton flux to reach S1 (Minor) levels over 19-21
Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Negative polarity CH HSS influences and mildly enhanced solar wind
conditions prevailed this period. Total field strength was between 4-6
nT. The Bz component underwent several sustained, southward deflections
of -4 to -5 nT during the latter half of the period. Solar wind speeds
ranged ~460 km/s to just above 500 km/s. Phi was predominantly negative
with a few excursions into a positive solar sector.

.Forecast...
Negative polarity CH HSS influences are expected to continue over 19-21
Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet and unsettled, with an isolated active
period, due to negative polarity CH HSS influences.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to be at unsettled to active levels
for the remainder of 19 Jan. Quiet to unsettled levels are expected to
prevail 20-21 Jan as negative polarity CH HSS effects continue.


:Product: 02201230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 20 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar flare activity has been at low levels with only C-Class observed.
The largest flare was a C8.1 at 19/2345 UTC from the vicinity of plage
Region 3991 (S14W45). This flare was accompanied by a Type II radio
emission (553 km/s) and associated CME off the SW of the disk. Modelling
efforts determined the bulk of the CME to miss ahead of Earths orbit.
However, a weak glancing influence can not be ruled out late on 24 Feb. 
Region 3996 (S16E04, Eki/beta-gamma) is the largest and most complex
region on the disk but was responsible for only one C-Class flare. Flux
emergence and an increase in interior spots can be seen in Region 3998
(S14E19, Dai/beta-delta) but the region has been fairly quiet with a
single C-Class flare of C1.3 at 19/1408 UTC.
 

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low with a chance for isolated M-class
(R1-R2, Minor-Moderate) activity and a slight chance for X-class (R3,
Strong) activity through 22 Feb.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The 2 MeV electron flux at geostationary orbit has been at moderate (100
pfu) levels for much of the period. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux
was at background levels.

.Forecast...
Weak CH HSS in the northern hemisphere could increase the 2 MeV electron
flux into 21 Feb but its expected to remain below threshold.

All active regions in the western hemisphere are simple in their
magnetic complexity, reducing the chances for impactful proton events.
Therefore, the greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to remain
below S1 (Minor) levels through 22 Feb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters remained enhanced throughout the day following a
negative polarity CH HSS and/or a possible weak glancing blow from a CME
that left the disk on the 15 Feb. The total interplanetary magnetic
field remained between 6-10 nT with the Bz component sustaining the
southward direction from 00-06 UTC, northward between 06-16 UTC, and
then mostly south thereafter.  Solar wind speeds were between 425-533
km/s and the phi angle remained in the negative (towards the Sun)
orientation.

.Forecast...
A northern hemispheric, positive polarity coronal hole is expected to
become geoeffective 20 Feb with a slight enhancement possible at this
time. Waning influences towards nominal conditions are expected 21-22
Feb.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field has been at quiet to active levels.

.Forecast...
Active conditions are expected to continue into the early parts of 20
Feb. The geomagnetic field is expected to trend towards quiet to
unsettled conditions as effects from the negative CH HSS wane and there
is a transition to a weak, northern hemispheric CH HSS late 20 Feb.
Based on the next coronal holes position and polarity, impacts are
expected to be minimal. Quiet conditions are expected thereafter through
22 Feb.


:Product: 02131230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 13 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity increased to R1-Minor levels due to an impulsive M1.0
flare at 13/1109 UTC from Region 3992 (S06W17, Dai/beta-gamma). This
region also produced C-class activity. The region continued to develop
quickly and increase in magnetic complexity. C-class activity was also
observed from Region 3990 (S09E33, Cko/beta). All other numbered regions
were stable and quiet.

No Earth directed CMEs were observed in available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low with a chance for (R1-R2,
Minor-Moderate) activity on 13-15 Feb.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux reached high levels with a peak
flux of 2,050 pfu observed at 12/1745 UTC. The greater than 10 MeV
proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
to high levels through 15 Feb. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is
expected to remain below S1 (Minor) levels through 15 Feb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was enhanced by negative polarity CH HSS
influences. Total field Bt remained mostly steady near 6 nT, while the
Bz component varied between +/-6 nT. Wind speeds remained mostly steady
between about 500-550 km/s. The Phi angle was predominantly negative.

.Forecast...
The solar wind environment is expected to be enhanced on 13-15 Feb due
to onset and influence from the next negative polarity CH HSS.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at unsettled to active levels due to negative
polarity CH HSS influence.

.Forecast...
G1 (Minor) storm periods are likely on 13 Feb due to onset of a negative
polarity CH HSS. Unsettled to active conditions are expected on 14-15 
Feb as CH influence continues.


:Product: 02181230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 18 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached moderate levels due to an M1.0 flare at 17/1513
UTC from Region 3992 (S06W88, Eai/beta-gamma). The region looks to have
lost much of its intermediate spots but is becoming too difficult to
analyze as it rotates around the western limb. Region 3998 (S14E47,
Dai/beta-delta) has been the greatest flare producer throughout the
period with ten C-Class flares. The region exhibited rapid flux
emergence and magnetic shear across the intermediate area. Region 3996
(S16E32, Eko/beta-gamma) also experienced quite a bit of growth with its
length increasing and both the leader and trailer spots increasing in
size due to consolidation of interior spots. Regardless of growth, the
region has been quiet. All other regions have been stable or in slight
decay.

No Earth-directed CMEs were observed in coronagraph imagery this period.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low with a chance for M-class (R1-R2,
Minor-Moderate) activity and a slight chance for X-class (R3, Strong)
activity through 20 Feb.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux at geostationary orbit remains high
following a CH HSS; electrons reached a peak flux of 4,780 pfu observed
at 17/1650 UTC. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background
levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
to high levels through 18 Feb possibly into 19 Feb before returning to
moderate levels thereafter. All active regions in the western hemisphere
are simple in their magnetic complexity, reducing the chances for
impactful proton events. Therefore, the greater than 10 MeV proton flux
is expected to remain below S1 (Minor) levels through 20 Feb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters continued to reflect influences from the negative
polarity CH HSS. Total field averaged around 6 nT with a mostly variable
Bz component between +/- 6 nT. There was a sustained period of southward
Bz between 1200-1625 UTC but shifted back to variable thereafter. Solar
wind speeds have been on the gradual decline from 550 km/s to 500 km/s.
Aside from a few oscillations, the phi angle has remained mostly in the
negative (towards the Sun) orientation.

.Forecast...
Negative polarity CH HSS influences are expected to diminish through 18
Feb. There is a slight chance for a weak glancing blow from a CME that
left the disk on 15 Feb but confidence is low. If the CME does arrive,
solar wind parameters will be disturbed into 19 Feb. Effects wane and a
gradual return to nominal conditions is expected 20 Feb.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to active levels. 

.Forecast...
No changes from previous discussion. Unsettled to active conditions are
expected to continue through 18 Feb as negative polarity CH HSS effects
wane. There is a chance for G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming by early to
mid 18 Feb with any glancing influences from a CME that left the Sun on
15 Feb. However, this is low confidence. Quiet to unsettled conditions
are expected to prevail on 19 Feb as any remaining negative polarity CH
HSS effects end and a possible transition to a weak, positive polarity
CH HSS regime begins.


:Product: 02090030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 09 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached moderate levels. Region 3981 (N08W56,
Eac/beta-delta) maintained a weak delta in its intermediate spots, while
exhibiting signs of decay. AR 3981 was responsible for an M2.0 flare at
08/0927 UTC, which was the largest event of the period. Region 3976
(N11W82, Hsx/alpha) produced a C3.9 flare at 08/0827 UTC as it began its
transit of the western limb. Region 3984 (N15W56, Dao/beta) produced
numerous C-class flares, the largest of which included a C7.8 and C8.0
at 08/1058 UTC and 08/1254 UTC, respectively.

A slow, faint CME associated with the aforementioned M2.0 flare from AR
3981 was first seen in coronagraph imagery at approximately 08/1000 UTC.
While a substantial Earth-directed component is not anticipated,
analysis and modeling is currently underway.

.Forecast...
Solar activity will likely reach moderate levels (R1-R2,
Minor-Moderate), with a slight chance for isolated X-Class (R3-Strong)
events,
through 11 Feb due to the cluster of sunspot groups in the NW quadrant.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
levels through 11 Feb. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has a slight
chance of reaching S1 (Minor) levels through 11 Feb primarily due to the
flare potential of AR 3981.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was slightly enhanced from what was likely
glancing influences from the 02 Feb CME event. Total field gradually
increased to peaks of 13-15 nT. The Bz component underwent a few
sustained, southward deflections reaching -7 to -8 nT. Solar wind speeds
ranged ~300 km/s to ~360 km/s and phi was predominantly positive.

.Forecast...
Enhancements from a recurrent negative polarity CH HSS are anticipated
to begin on 09 Feb and continue through 11 Feb.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to unsettled levels with an isolated
active period.

.Forecast...
Unsettled to active levels are expected on 09 Feb due to negative
polarity CH HSS effects. G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming is likely on 10
Feb as high speed stream effects continue with a return to primarily
unsettled to active levels by 11 Feb.


:Product: 01200030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 20 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached moderate levels. Region 3964 (N06W62,
Eki/beta-gamma) produced an M2.4 flare (R1-Minor) at 19/0332 UTC, the
largest event of the period, and continued to slowly decayed. Region
3961 (S09E06, Ekc/beta-gamma-delta) underwent minor overall growth, but
some decay was observed among the intermediate spots. New Regions 3968
(S19W71, Bxo/beta) and 3969 (S06E59, Bxo/beta) were numbered, and the
remaining regions were stable. No Earth-directed CMEs were detected in
available imagery.

.Forecast...
R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) events are likely, with a slight chance for R3 or
greater events, over 20-22 Jan.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal and moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal and
moderate levels through 22 Jan. There is a slight chance for the greater
than 10 MeV proton flux to reach S1 (Minor) levels over 20-22 Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Negative polarity CH HSS influences prevailed. Total field strength
slowly increased throughout the period to a peak of 8 nT. The Bz
component was sustained southward, by was much as -7 nT, for brief
intervals throughout the period. Solar wind speeds ranged between
450-550 km/s.

.Forecast...
Enhanced solar wind conditions and negative polarity CH HSS influences
are expected to persist through 21 Jan. Background levels are expected
to return on 22 Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field reached active levels due to negative polarity CH
HSS influences.

.Forecast...
Periods of active conditions are likely on 20 Jan, followed by quiet and
unsettled levels on 21 Jan, due to negative polarity CH HSS influences.
Quiet conditions are expected to prevail on 22 Jan.


:Product: 01141230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 14 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was low with only C-class flare activity observed. Region
3947 (N13W77, Dko/beta-gamma) was responsible for the majority of the
activity. Region 3959 (N17E45, Cho/beta) continued to rotate into view
revealing possible small, trailing spots. Region 3961 (S10E83, Dao/beta)
rotated onto the southeast limb and was numbered during the period.

A narrow CME was observed off the southeast limb beginning around
14/0048 UTC in association with a filament eruption. Model runs suggest
it is well ahead and south of the Sun-Earth line.

.Forecast...
There is a chance for R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) events over 14-16 Jan, with
a slight chance for an R3 or greater event, on 14-15 Jan.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was steady at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels through 15 Jan. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux
is expected to persist at background levels over 14-16 Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters returned to near background levels. Total field
was steady between 6-7 nT and the Bz component was variable. Solar wind
speeds decreased from ~500 km/s to ~410 km/s. Phi was predominantly
negative.

.Forecast...
Mildly enhanced solar wind conditions and negative polarity CH HSS
influences are expected on 14-15 Jan, with a return to nominal levels on
16 Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled.

.Forecast...
Quiet and unsettled conditions are expected to prevail over 14-15 Jan,
with negative polarity CH HSS influence. A return to mostly quiet
conditions is expected on 16 Jan.


:Product: 01261230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 26 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at low levels with no M-class activity observed. The
notable event was a filament channel in the SE quadrant that began to
erupt ~26/0030 UTC. A CME signature was observed in subsequent
SOHO/LASCO C2 coronagraph imagery. Analysis and modelling of the event
is underway to determine if an Earth-directed component was produced.

A new region of flux was observed rotating onto the SE limb. Only minor
changes were observed in the numbered active regions transiting the
visible disk.

.Forecast...
There is a chance of M-class flares (R1-R2, Minor-Moderate) on 26-28
Jan, with a slight chance for an X-class flare (R3, Strong) on 26-27
Jan, primarily due to flare potential from multiple regions nearing the
W limb.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be normal to
moderate levels on 26-28 Jan, with a chance to reach high levels on 26
Jan. There is a slight chance for the greater than 10 MeV proton flux to
reach S1 (Minor) levels over 26-27 Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were at nominal levels. Solar wind speeds steadily
declined from ~380 km/s to 320 km/s over the reporting period. Total
magnetic field strength was below 5 nT. Phi angle was negatively
oriented.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are likely to continue at nominal levels over
26-28 Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is likely to be at mostly quiet levels over 26-28
Jan.


:Product: 02100030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 10 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at low levels. Region 3981 (N07W69, Esi/beta-gamma)
continued to show signs of decay in its intermediate spots while
continuing its trek towards the western limb. AR 3981 produced a C4.4
flare and C4.1 flare at 09/0249 UTC and 09/1413 UTC, respectively.
Region 3983 (N06W07, Cso/beta) developed a simple, trailing spot and 
Region 3988 (S18W37, Cro/beta-gamma) underwent evolution as its leading
spot began to develop rudimentary penumbra as well as a gamma magnetic
configuration in its intermediate area. New spots were noted near S19W34
and S10E80, but remain unnumbered at this time as we await additional
solar observatory reports. The remaining numbered regions were stable
and relatively quiet.

Beginning at approximately 09/1226 UTC, a large filament centered near
S26W17 became unstable. GOES-16 304 imagery seems to suggest that this
was a reabsorption event and is corroborated by a lack of ejecta visible
in coronagraph imagery. No other Earth-directed events were observed in
available imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity will likely reach moderate levels (R1-R2,
Minor-Moderate), with a slight chance for isolated X-Class (R3-Strong)
events, through 11 Feb due to the cluster of sunspot groups in the NW
quadrant. Activity will likely decrease further on 12 Feb to only a
isolated chance for R1-2 events as AR 3981 rotates beyond the western
limb.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
levels through 12 Feb. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has a slight
chance of reaching S1 (Minor) levels through 11 Feb primarily due to the
flare potential of AR 3981. Probabilities decrease on 12 Feb as AR 3981
moves beyond the western limb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was enhanced by negative polarity CH HSS
influences. Total field increased from a range of 3 to 10 nT to peaks of
22 nT. The Bz component remained primarily northward until approximately
09/1257 UTC when sustained, southward deflections reaching -10 to -15 nT
began. Solar wind speeds increased from ~350 km/s to 500-550 km/s. Phi
became predominantly negative around 09/ 0851 UTC.

.Forecast...
An enhanced and disturbed solar wind environment is expected to continue
through 11 Feb due to negative polarity CH HSS influences. HSS
influences from this particular CH should begin to wane by 12 Feb.
However, there is a chance for an additional enhancement by late 12 Feb
due to any glancing influences from a slow, faint CME that left the Sun
on 08 Feb. Confidence is low in this outcome.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field reached G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming levels.

.Forecast...
G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming is expected on 10 Feb under negative
polarity CH HSS effects. Quiet to unsettled conditions, with isolated
active periods, are expected 11-12 Feb as CH HSS effects continue along
with a chance of glancing influences from the aforementioned 08 Feb CME.


:Product: 01251230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 25 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached moderate levels due to an M2.7 flare at 24/2104
UTC from Region 3961 (S10W69, Eki/beta-gamma). Region 3961 continued to
exhibit decay in its intermediate and trailing spots. Slight growth was
observed in Region 3971 (N13W56, Dai/beta-gamma). A new region of
emerging flux was observed near N12E10 but has not yet been assigned an
active region number. No Earth-directed CMEs were observed.

.Forecast...
There is a chance of M-class flares (R1-R2, Minor-Moderate), with a
slight chance for an X-class flare (R3, Strong), on 25-27 Jan.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be normal to
moderate on 25-27 Jan. There is a slight chance for the greater than 10
MeV proton flux to reach S1 (Minor) levels over 25-27 Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were near nominal levels. Solar wind speeds
gradually declined from ~450 km/s to n ~390 km/s by the end of the
reporting period. Total field ranged from 2-6 nT while the Bz component
briefly reached -4 nt. Phi angle remained mostly negative.

.Forecast...
An enhanced solar wind environment is likely on 25 Jan with the
anticipated passing of a CME that left the Sun on 22 Jan. A transition
back to nominal conditions is likely over 26 Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet.

.Forecast...
Unsettled to G1 (Minor) storming, with a chance for G2 (Moderate), is
likely on 25 Jan with the anticipated arrival of a CME that left the Sun
on 22 Jan. Unsettled to active levels are expected to persist through 26
Jan as CME effects wane. Mostly quiet conditions are expected over 27
Jan.


:Product: 02030030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 03 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity increased to high levels as the cluster of regions in the
NE churned out several M-class flares again this period. Region 3977
(N19W00, Cao/beta-gamma) produced an M5.1 flare, the largest of the
period, at 02/1404 UTC and an M1.2 at 02/1513 UTC. Region 3981 (N05E24,
Dsi/beta-gamma-delta) added an M3.0 at 02/1012 UTC and an M1.4 flare at
02/1250 UTC. Associated with the M3.0 flare was a Type II radio sweep
(est 664 km/s). This region also produced several C-class flares as it
exhibited rapid growth in its intermediate and trailer spots. Region
3982 (N22E19, Cao/beta) developed in the NE and was numbered. The
remaining active regions on the visible disk were either stable or in
gradual decay.

Other activity included a Type II radio sweep (est. 736 km/s) beginning
at 02/0540 UTC. This was likely associated with a halo CME, observed in
SOHO/LASCO C2 coronagraph imagery, that originated from the Suns far
side.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is likely to reach minor levels (R1/R2-Minor/Moderate
radio blackouts), with a slight chance for isolated X-Class (R3-Strong)
events, over 03 - 05 Feb as the cluster of spot groups in the NE
quadrant remains active.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux reached high levels reaching a peak
value of 1653 pfu at 02/1550 UTC. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux
was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The 2 MeV electron flux is likely to reach high levels through 04 Feb
Feb as the positive polarity coronal hole high speed influence persists,
yet begins to diminish. The greater than 10 MeV proton levels have a
slight chance of reaching S1 (Minor) levels over 03 Feb - 05 Feb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment continued under the influence of a positive
polarity CH HSS. Total magnetic field strength averaged near 5 nT for
the first half of the period before seeing a slight increase to peak at
11 nT at 02/1735 UTC. The Bz component was variable between +/-6 nT
until approximately 02/1600 UTC when it rotated mostly north. Solar wind
speeds, as observed at the ACE spacecraft, began the period just under
700 km/s and then slowly declined through the period to end at just over
500 km/s. Phi angle was predominantly oriented in the positive sector
until just after 02/1600 UTC when it rotated into a negative position.

Forecast...
Enhancements in the solar wind parameters are expected to continue
through 03-04 Feb with persistent, yet waning positive polarity coronal
hole influence, coupled with the possible interaction with the 31 Jan
CME on 04 Feb. Parameters are then expected to return to near background
levels on 05 Feb as CH/CME influences diminish.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to active levels due to influence
from a positive polarity CH HSS.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is likely to see active levels, with a slight
chance for isolated G1 (Minor) storm conditions, early on 03 Feb as the
positive polarity CH HSS influence continues. Late on 04 Feb, active
conditions are possible again if the CME from 31 Jan passes near enough 
to the Earth. A return to quiet to unsettled conditions are then
expected on 05 Feb as CH/CME influences subside.


:Product: 01221230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 22 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity remained at R1-Minor levels due to an M1.3 flare at
22/1108 UTC from Region 3961 (S10W14, Ekc/beta-gamma-delta). Associated
with this flare was a Type II radio sweep with an estimated velocity of
561 km/s. This region also produced a C7.2 flare observed at 22/0634
UTC. Slight decay occurred in the intermediate area of Region 3961.
Slight growth was observed in Region 3967 (S17E19, Eai/beta-gamma). Only
minor changes were noted in the rest of the spotted regions.

A CME, directly mostly off the SE limb, began at 21/1145 UTC observed in
GOES/CCOR-1 imagery. This CME was associated with the M3.3/Sf flare
observed at 21/1039 UTC from Region 3967. Modelling indicated a
potential glancing blow mid to late on 24 Jan.

.Forecast...
M-class flares are likely (R1-R2, Minor-Moderate), with a slight chance
for an X-class flare (R3, Strong), on 22-24 Jan.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be normal to
moderate with a chance for high levels through 24 Jan. There is a slight
chance for the greater than 10 MeV proton flux to reach S1 (Minor)
levels over 22-24 Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind speed continued to decline from approximately 570 km/s to
near 500 km/s as CH HSS influence waned. Total field ranged from 3-6 nT
while the Bz component was between +4 to -5 nT. Phi angle was
predominantly negative until 21/1725 UTC when it became variable between
positive and negative sectors.

.Forecast...
A slow return to nominal levels is expected through 23 Jan as HSS
influence subsides. Around mid to late on 24 Jan, a glancing blow from
the 21 Jan CME is likely to enhance solar wind parameters.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled.

.Forecast...
Quiet to unsettled levels are expected on 22 Jan followed by mostly
quiet conditions on 23 Jan as HSS influence diminishes. Unsettled to
active levels, with a chance for G1 (Minor) storm periods, is likely mid
to late on 24 Jan due to the arrival of a glancing blow from the 21 Jan
CME.


:Product: 02011230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 01 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels following an M6.6/1n flare
(R2-Modereate) at 31/1406 UTC from Region 3976 (N13E20,
Eac/beta-gamma-delta). Associated with this flare was a Type II radio
sweep (est. 673 km/s) and a Tenflare (280 sfu). Only minor changes were
observed among all numbered active regions on the visible disk.

A CME associated with the M6.6/1n flare was first observed in SOHO/LASCO
C2 coronagraph imagery at 31/1412 UTC. Analysis and modelling of the
event suggested most of the ejecta would pass behind Earth, with
influence from the periphery possible on 04 Feb.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is likely to reach minor levels (R1/R2-Minor/Moderate
radio blackouts), with a slight chance for isolated X-Class (R3-Strong)
events, over 01 - 03 Feb, primarily due to potential from an active
region cluster in the NE quadrant.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux has been at moderate levels. The
greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux at geostationary orbit is expected
to remain at normal to moderate levels on 01 Feb. A positive polarity
coronal hole high speed stream on 01-02 Feb will likely increase the
chances for the 2 MeV electron flux to reach high levels on 03 Feb.
The greater than 10 MeV proton levels have a slight chance of reaching
S1 (Minor) levels over 01 Feb - 03 Feb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment transitioned into the influence of a positive
polarity CH HSS over the past 24 hours. Total magnetic field strength
was elevated, with peak values reaching 18 nT. The Bz component rotated
as far south as -18 nT around 01/0030 UTC. Solar wind speeds steadily
increased from ~350 km/s to ~600 km/s by the end of the reporting
period. Phi angle transitioned to predominantly positive after 31/2230
UTC.

Forecast...
Enhancements in the solar wind parameters are expected to continue
through 01-03 Feb as the positive polarity coronal hole influence
persists.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to active levels due to influence
from a positive polarity CH HSS.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is likely to reach G1 (Minor) levels on 01 Feb as
the positive polarity CH HSS influence continues. Active conditions are
likely over 02 Feb and unsettled conditions over 03 Feb as CH HSS
conditions wane.


:Product: 01080030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 08 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar flare activity was at moderate levels due to an M1.1 flare at
07/2305 UTC, likely from old Region 3939 (S17, L=084) just beyond the SW
limb. AR 3947 (N12E03, Eki/beta-gamma-delta), AR 3945 (S09W23, Cao/
eta), and AR 3951 (S13W15, Hsx/alpha) produced C-class activity. AR 3947
continues to be the largest region on the disk while being stable and
showing separation between its leader and trailer portions. All other
regions were stable or in decay.

There were no Earth-directed CMEs observed in available coronagraph
imagery.

.Forecast...
R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) radio blackouts are likely, with a slight chance
for isolated R3 (Strong) or greater events through 10 Jan. This is based
on the magnetic complexity and persistent activity of Region 3947.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux reached high levels with a peak
flux of 3,070 Pfu at 07/1850 UTC.

The greater than 10 MeV proton flux continues to trend towards
background levels following an S1 (Minor) solar radiation storm that
ended on 05/0940 UTC.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at moderate to
high levels on 08-10 Jan.

The greater than 10 MeV proton flux will continue to trend towards
background levels 08 Jan. A slight chance for S1 (Minor) solar radiation
storming will persist through 10 Jan as multiple CME producing regions
transit and exit the western limb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
An enhanced solar wind environment continued due to the effects of
positive polarity coronal holes in the western hemisphere. The total
field was between 5-8 nT with a variable Bz component between +/-6 nT.
The phi angle remained primarily in the positive (away from the Sun)
orientation throughout the period. Wind speed briefly increased near 640
km/s between ~07/0440-1300 UTC.

.Forecast...
The enhanced solar wind environment will persist with gradual weakening
through 08 Jan with a trend towards ambient levels 09 Jan. There is a
slight chance for a glancing blow due to a CME that left the disk on 04
Jan. Confidence is low in its arrival but an enhancement of the field
for a brief period will follow if it does arrive.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to unsettled levels.

.Forecast... 
Quiet to unsettled conditions will continue into 08 Jan as the influence
of the positive polarity CH HSS decreases. Mostly quiet conditions are
expected thereafter into 09-10 Jan.


:Product: 01161230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 16 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was low with only C-class flare activity observed. New
Region 3964 (N07W15, Dri/beta-gamma) emerged and was numbered during the
period. It has grown quickly and is developing magnetic complexity as
well. The Region produced the largest event of the period, a C4.4 at
16/0726 UTC. Region 3961 (S09E51, Ekc/beta-gamma) and Region 3959
(N18E35, Dki/beta-gamma-delta) both continued to show growth in aerial
extent. New Region 3965 (N15E71, Hsx/alpha) was numbered as it rotated
into view on the northeast limb and produced a C4.2 at 16/0642 UTC.

No Earth-directed CMEs were observed in available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
There is an increased chance for R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) radio blackouts,
with a slight chance for R3 (Strong) radio blackouts over 16-18 Jan as
several regions continue to show growth and increased magnetic
complexity.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels,
reaching a peak of 901 pfu at 15/1810 UTC. The greater than 10 MeV
proton flux was steady at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at moderate to
high levels on 16 Jan and normal to moderate levels on 17-18 Jan. The
greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to persist at background
levels through 18 Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were slightly enhanced during the period. Total
field varied between 5-9 nT while the Bz component varied between +7/-8
nT with several periods of sustained negative/southward orientation.
Solar wind speed averaged ~475 km/s. Phi was predominantly negative
throughout the period.

.Forecast...
Mildly enhanced solar wind conditions due to negative polarity CH HSS
influence are expected to wane through 16 Jan. A new negative polarity
CH HSS is expected to enhance solar wind conditions again on 17-18 Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled due to waning CH HSS
influence.

.Forecast...
Conditions are likely to dip to mostly quiet levels, with a chance for
isolated unsettled periods, on 16 Jan before influence from a new
negative polarity CH HSS returns on 17 Jan. Mostly unsettled conditions
are then expected, with a slight chance for isolated active periods,
through 18 Jan.


:Product: 01130030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 13 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was low with only C-class flare activity observed. New
Regions 3957 (N21W40, Bxo/beta), 3958 (S06E49, Axx/alpha), and 3959
(N19E72, Hsx/alpha) were numbered this period while the remaining
regions were stable. No Earth-directed CMEs were detected in available
data.

.Forecast...
There is a chance for R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) events, and a slight chance
for an R3 or greater event, over 13-15 Jan.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was steady at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels through 15 Jan. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux
is expected to persist at background levels over 13-15 Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters remained slightly enhanced this period as positive
polarity CH HSS influences waned. Total field strength reached 10 nT and
the Bz component varied between +/-6 nT. Solar wind speeds decreased
from a high of around 450 km/s early in the period to end-of-period
values near 375-400 km/s.

.Forecast...
Mildly enhanced solar wind conditions and negative polarity CH HSS
influences are expected on 14-15 Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet.

.Forecast...
Quiet and unsettled conditions are expected to prevail over 13-15 Jan,
with negative polarity CH HSS influences likely on 14-15 Jan.


:Product: 01271230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 27 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached active levels following an M2.6 (R1-Minor) flare
at 27/0812 UTC from an area around the NE limb. The regions on the
visible disk exhibited only minor changes, mostly decay, and were either
quiet or associated with low-level C-class activity.

Other activity included a filament eruption near S20E50 beginning around
26/1830 UTC and additional one near S20E10 beginning around 27/0510 UTC.
A CME was observed in SOHO/LASCO C2 imagery following the first eruption
but modelling suggested an Earth-directed component was unlikely. No CME
signatures were identified in coronagraph imagery following the second
eruption.

.Forecast...
There is a decreasing chance of M-class flares (R1-R2, Minor-Moderate)
on 27-29 Jan, with a slight chance for an isolated X-class flare (R3,
Strong) on 27 Jan. Probabilities continue to decrease as the larger,
more active spot groups rotate beyond the West limb over the next few
days.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal to
moderate levels on 27-29 Jan, with a slight chance to reach high levels
on 27 Jan. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is likely to remain below
S1 (Minor) levels through 29 Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters indicated a minor enhancement in the total
magnetic field strength (Bt) above 5 nT that was observed after 24/0445
UTC. Bt reached a peak of 8 nT near 27/1130 UTC. No significant periods
of southward Bz were observed. Solar wind speeds remained low, with peak
speeds observed around 335 km/s. Phi angle transitioned from
predominantly negative to variable after 26/2330 UTC.

.Forecast...
Solar wind parameters are likely to continue near nominal levels over
27-28 Jan. Modelling of a filament that erupted from the Sun on 26 Jan
suggests a chance for enhancements in the solar wind environment late on
28 Jan to early on 29 Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is likely to be at mostly quiet levels over 27-28
Jan. Active levels are possible on 29 Jan if the filament from 26 Jan
passes close enough to Earth.


:Product: 02040030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 04 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels with eight R1 (Minor) and two R2
(Moderate) flares throughout the period. The largest flare was an M8.8
at 03/0358 UTC from Region (N05E09, Ekc/beta-gamma-delta). This region
continues to grow and has been responsible for most of the flare
activity throughout the period. The other flare producing region was
3978 (N11W02, Dai/beta-gamma). There is a lot of splitting and shearing
occurring in much of the cluster in the NE. Regions outside of this
cluster have been stable or in decay.

A filament eruption occurred around 03/1049 UTC centered near S43W54. A
thin CME can be seen in Lasco C2 coronagraph imagery around 03/1300 UTC.
The CME was modelled to be too far south to make an impact to Earth.
There have been no other CMEs detected in imagery as of 03/2200 UTC.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to reach moderate levels
(R1/R2-Minor/Moderate radio blackouts), with a slight chance for
isolated X-Class (R3-Strong) events, over 04 - 06 Feb due to a complex
cluster of sunspot groups in the northern hemisphere.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electrons at geostationary orbit have been at
moderate (100 pfu) levels. The injection of particles associated with
the high speed stream reached a peak of 1653 pfu on 02/1550 UTC but have
not risen to high levels during the diurnal maxima throughout the
period. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
levels through 06 Feb. The greater than 10 MeV proton levels have a
slight chance of reaching S1 (Minor) levels over 04-06 Feb due to the
magnetically complex regions moving into the western hemisphere.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The coronal hole high speed stream looks to have been disrupted by the
arrival of a CME between 02/12-1700 UTC. During this time the sheath and
driver of what was most likely the CME that left the NE part of the Sun
around 31/1600 UTC. A return to what is most likely the tail end of the
high speed stream comes back after 03/1800 UTC. Total field has been
between 7-12 nT with the Bz component remaining in the northward
direction between 5-10 nT. Solar wind speeds were between 500-600 km/s
early in the period and have weakened to around 450 km/s. The phi angle
remained in the positive (away from the Sun) orientation.

.Forecast...
Waning influences from the coronal hole high speed stream and CME is
expected 04 Feb. A return to more nominal conditions expected 05-036
Feb.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field has been at quiet levels. 

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field may see another isolated period of active
conditions as CH/HSS influences wane but is expected to remain mostly at
quiet to unsettled levels through 06 Feb.

-Bri


:Product: 02080030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 08 1215 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Product: Forecast Discussion
Issued: 2025 Feb 08 0030 UTC
Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction
Center

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels. Region 3981 (N08W42, Ekc/beta-gamma)
produced an M7.5 flare at 7/0921 UTC, the largest event of the period,
and exhibited signs of decay in its intermediate area. AR 3981 also
produced an M1.6, M1.1, and M3.1 flares this period. Region 3978
(N14W53, Cko/beta-gamma) grew in overall extent while producing C-class
flares. Region 3988 (S20W09, Bxo/beta) was numbered this period, but was
otherwise unremarkable. A faint, westerly CME associated with the
aforementioned M-class flares from AR 3981 was observed in C2 imagery
beginning at 07/0800 UTC. However, this event is not anticipated to have
a significant Earth-directed component.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to reach moderate levels (R1-R2,
Minor-Moderate), with a chance for isolated X-Class (R3-Strong) events,
through 10 Feb due to the complex cluster of sunspot groups in the NW
quadrant.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
levels through 09 Feb. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has a chance
of reaching S1 (Minor) levels through 10 Feb due to the cluster of
magnetically complex regions in the western hemisphere.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters returned to an ambient-like state. Total field
gradually decreased to 4-5 nt, and the Bz component was primarily
northward or neutral. Solar wind speeds decreased to below 400 km/s
and phi was predominantly positive.

.Forecast...
The solar wind parameters may undergo a slight enhancement on 08 Feb due
to the outside chance of glancing influences from a CME that left the
Sun on 08 Feb. Enhancements from a recurrent negative polarity CH HSS
are anticipated to begin on 09 Feb and continue through 10 Feb.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet.

.Forecast...
Quiet to unsettled conditions are expected on 08 Feb due to the
possibility for glancing effects from the 02 Feb CME. Unsettled to
active levels are expected on 09 Feb due to negative polarity CH HSS
effects. G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming is likely on 10 Feb as high
speed stream effects continue.


:Product: 01030030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 03 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at moderate levels. Region 3939 (S17W33, Cso/beta)
exhibited decay primarily in its leading spots while producing an M1.1
flare at 02/1740 UTC, which was the largest of the period. Region 3941
(S06W26, Cso/beta) exhibited decay as well, but was relatively quiet.
Regions 3943 (S16E35, Dao/beta) and 3945 (S09E46, Eki/beta-gamma)
underwent growth as they both gained additional spots. Region 3947
(N10E71, Dao/beta-gamma) was numbered this period as it rotated into
view and produced C7.5 and C6.6 flares at 02/0618 and 02/1219 UTC
respectively. Region 3948 (N23E36, Axx/alpha) was numbered this period
as well, but was otherwise unremarkable. Additionally, new spots were
noted near N13W55, but remain unnumbered at this time as we await
corroborating observatory reports. No Earth-directed CMEs were observed
in available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
R1-2 (Minor-Moderate) radio blackouts due to M-class flare activity are
likely through 05 Jan. Event probabilities increase slightly on days 2
and 3 (04 & 05 Jan) as ARs 3938 (S19W78, Hsx/alpha), 3940 (S06, L=083),
3939 and 3946 (S12W53, Dao/beta) approach the western limb.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
There is a chance for the greater than 2 MeV electron flux to reach high
levels on 03 Jan with post CME influences. Moderate levels are expected
thereafter. A slight chance for an S1 (Minor) solar radiation storm
event will persist through 05 Jan given the current total disk potential
and as AR 3939 approaches the western limb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment reflected continued, yet waning CME
influences. Total field reached peaks of 13-14 nT and the Bz component
underwent several southward deflections reaching -10 to -11 nT. Solar
wind speeds ranged from ~469 km/s to 560 km/s and phi rotated between
solar sectors indicating magnetic cloud passage.

.Forecast...
Additional enhancements are possible by 04 Jan due to glancing CME
influences from an event that left the Sun on 01 Jan. A further
disturbance is expected on 05 Jan due to positive polarity CH HSS
effects.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field reached G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming levels due
to CME effects.

.Forecast...
Unsettled to active levels are expected on 03 Jan due to waning CME
effects. G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming is likely 04-05 Jan first due
to possible, glancing CME effects from an event that left the Sun on 01
Jan and then to recurrent, positive polarity CH HSS effects.


:Product: 02191230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 19 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity has been low with C-Class flares throughout the period.
The primary flare producer was Region 3992 (S06W96, Eai/beta-gamma)
which was responsible for six flares. The other flare producers were
Regions 3990 (S09W44, Cko/beta-gamma) and 3998 (S14E34, Dai/beta-delta).

No Earth-directed CMEs were observed in coronagraph imagery this period.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low with a chance for isolated M-class
(R1-R2, Minor-Moderate) activity and a slight chance for X-class (R3,
Strong) activity through 21 Feb.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux at geostationary orbit remains high
following a CH HSS; electrons reached a peak flux of 1,520 pfu observed
at 18/2200 UTC. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background
levels.

.Forecast...
As the CH HSS comes to an end, the greater than 2 MeV electron flux is
expected to trend back towards normal to moderate levels 19 Feb. There
remains a slight chance that electrons could cross the 1000 pfu
threshold during the diurnal maxima but the trend is decreasing and the
time above threshold, if it does occur, should be shorter than previous
days.

All active regions in the western hemisphere are simple in their
magnetic complexity, reducing the chances for impactful proton events.
Therefore, the greater than 10 MeV proton flux is expected to remain
below S1 (Minor) levels through 21 Feb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
For much of the period the solar wind regime reflected the tail end of
the negative polarity CH HSS whose source is moving beyond the western
limb. The total field was around 6-8 nT with a variable Bz component
between +/-5 nT. Solar wind speeds averaged around 475 km/s and the phi
angle remained mostly in the negative component.

Recently, around 18/2000 UTC, there was a shift in the IMF with Bz
dropping to -8 to -10 nT, a slight rise in the solar winds to 500 km/s
and the phi angle becoming variable. Total field increased to 10 nT.

.Forecast...
HSS conditions are expected to persist through early to midday on 19
Feb. There is a slight chance for a weak glancing blow from a CME that
left the disk on 15 Feb but confidence is low. If the CME does arrive,
solar wind parameters will be disturbed into 19 Feb. Effects wane and a
gradual return to nominal conditions is expected 20-21 Feb.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at quiet to G1 (Minor) storm levels. 

.Forecast...
Unsettled to G1 (Minor) storming is expected early on 19 Feb as any
remaining negative polarity CH HSS effects end and a possible transition
to a weak, positive polarity CH HSS regime begins. Quiet to unsettled
levels are expected on 20 Feb followed by mostly quiet conditions on 21
Feb.


:Product: 01011230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 01 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at moderate levels due to M-class flaring from
Regions 3936 (N13W78, Ekc/beta-delta) and 3938 (N19W33, Cai/beta-gamma).
The largest was an M2.9 flare at 31/2250 UTC from Region 3938. Slight
decay was observed in Region 3938 and in the trailing spots of Region
3936. Growth was observed in Region 3944 (S14E26, Dai/beta) and in newly
numbered Region 3945 (S10E67, Eai/beta).

Other activity included a CME observed off the SW limb at 01/0224 UTC
likely associated with a filament liftoff at 01/0020 UTC near Region
3939 (S17W13, Cai/beta). Preliminary analysis indicated potential
glancing influences around midday on 03 Jan.

.Forecast...
M-class flares are expected (R1-R2/Minor-Moderate), with a slight chance
for isolated X-class flares (R3/Strong) through 02 Jan, primarily due to
the flare potential of Region 3936. M-class flares are likely, with a
slight chance for X-class flares on 03 Jan as Region 3936 rotates
further beyond the NW limb.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
There is a chance for the greater than 2 MeV electron flux to reach high
levels on 01-03 Jan due to CME influence. A slight chance for an S1
(Minor) solar radiation storm event will persist through 03 Jan given
the current total disk potential.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
A shock arrival was observed in solar wind parameters at 31/1555 UTC.
Total field increased to around 20 nT, Bz deflected southward to -18 nT
at 31/1859 UTC briefly, and solar wind speed increased to around 450
km/s. Total field slowly diminished to 5 nT at 01/0130 UTC before
increasing once again to 14-26 nT. The Bz component reached a maximum of
-23 nT at 01/1020 UTC. Solar wind speed increased around the same time
to between 490-570 km/s, possibly associated with the influence of a
second CME. Phi angle was mostly positive until 01/0437 UTC when it
switched into a negative sector.

.Forecast...
Enhancements in solar wind parameters are expected to continue through
01 Jan as CME activity persists. A slow return to nominal levels is
likely on 02 Jan. By midday on 03 Jan, a potential glancing blow from
the 01 Jan CME is likely to cause another enhancement.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field reached active to G2 (Moderate) geomagnetic storm
levels as CME activity progressed.

.Forecast...
Unsettled to G2-G3 (Moderate-Strong) storm levels are expected through
the rest of the UTC day on 01 Jan as CME activity persists. Quiet to
active levels are expected on 02 Jan as CME activity slowly wanes. By
midday on 03 Jan, a glancing blow from the 01 Jan CME is likely to cause
unsettled to active periods.


:Product: 02070030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 07 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity reached high levels today with an isolated M7.6/1b at
06/1104 UTC from Region 3981 (N08W31, Ekc/beta-gamma-delta). A possibly
associated, faint CME was observed off the W limb at 06/1248 UTC in
SOHO/LASCO C2 imagery. Coincident with the CME was a northerly eruption
at 06/1124 UTC which was determined to be far sided. The W limb CME
could only be observed in a few frames before it dissipated, so there
will likely not be much of an effect in the solar wind. An additional
M2.3/1N flare occurred at 06/2327 UTC and appears to have originated
from
Region 3978 (N11W41, Hax/alpha).

Slight decay and separation occurred in the trailing spots of Region
3981, while new spot emergence was observed in the intermediate area.
New spot emergence was also observed in Region 3984 (N15W41, Cai/beta).
The rest of the spot groups were relatively stable or in decay.

Region

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to reach moderate levels (R1-R2,
Minor-Moderate), with a chance for isolated X-Class (R3-Strong) events,
through 09 Feb due to the complex cluster of sunspot groups in the NW
Quadrant.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
levels through 09 Feb. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has a chance
of reaching S1 (Minor) levels through 09 Feb due to the cluster of
magnetically complex regions moving into the western hemisphere.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were slightly elevated with solar wind speed
increasing from approximately 380 km/s to near 475 km/s. Total field
ranged from 2-11 nT while the Bz component was between +/-7 nT. Phi
angle was mostly positive.

.Forecast...
The solar wind is expected to become more enhanced on 07 Feb due to a
glancing blow from the 02 Feb CME. Elevated conditions are expected to
wane through 08 Feb.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled.

.Forecast...
Quiet to active conditions are expected on 07 Feb, followed by quiet to
unsettled on 08 Feb, with the arrival of the 02 Feb CME. A return to
mostly quiet conditions is expected by 09 Feb.


:Product: 02101230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 10 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity increased to moderate levels (R1-Minor). Region 3981
(N07W78, Esi/beta-gamma) produced a single M1.0 flare at 10/0046 UTC.
The region continued to show signs of decay in its intermediate spots
while continuing its trek towards the western limb. Region 3981 produced
C4.1 flare at 09/1413 UTC. Region 3983 (N06W15, Cso/beta) developed a
simple, trailing spot and Region 3988 (S18W44, Cro/beta-gamma) underwent
evolution as its leading spot began to develop rudimentary penumbra as
well as a gamma magnetic configuration in its intermediate area. New
Region 3990 (S09E75, Hax/alpha) was numbered near the SE limb. The
remaining numbered regions were stable and relatively quiet.

Beginning at approximately 09/1226 UTC, a large filament centered near
S26W17 became unstable. GOES-16 304 imagery seems to suggest that this
was a reabsorption event and is corroborated by a lack of ejecta visible
in coronagraph imagery. No other Earth-directed events were observed in
available imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity will likely reach moderate levels (R1-R2,
Minor-Moderate), with a slight chance for isolated X-Class (R3-Strong)
events, through 11 Feb due to the cluster of sunspot groups in the NW
quadrant. Activity will likely decrease further on 12 Feb to only a
isolated chance for R1-2 events as AR 3981 rotates beyond the western
limb.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
levels through 12 Feb. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux has a slight
chance of reaching S1 (Minor) levels through 11 Feb primarily due to the
flare potential of AR 3981. Probabilities decrease on 12 Feb as AR 3981
moves beyond the western limb.

Solar Wind


.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was enhanced by negative polarity CH HSS
influences. Total field peaked at 22 nT early in the period before
declining to 9-10 nT late. The Bz component remained primarily southward
to -15 to -18 nT through about 10/0030 UTC. Thereafter, the Bz component
varied between +3 to -7 nT. Solar wind speeds increased from ~400 km/s
to 600-650 km/s through most of the period. Phi was predominantly
negative through the period.

.Forecast...
An enhanced and disturbed solar wind environment is expected to continue
through 11 Feb due to negative polarity CH HSS influences. HSS
influences from this particular CH should begin to wane by 12 Feb.
However, there is a chance for an additional enhancement by late 12 Feb
due to any glancing influences from a slow, faint CME that left the Sun
on 08 Feb. Confidence is low in this outcome.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field reached G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming levels.

.Forecast...
G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storming is expected on 10 Feb under negative
polarity CH HSS effects. Quiet to unsettled conditions, with isolated
active periods, are expected 11-12 Feb as CH HSS effects continue along
with a chance of glancing influences from the aforementioned 08 Feb CME.


:Product: 01111230forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 11 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was low. Region 3947 (N11W45, Dko/beta-gamma) produced
most of the C-class flare activity observed this period the largest of
which was a C9.8 flare at 10/2246 UTC. Region 3948 (N15W81, Hsx/alpha)
produced a C2.8 flare at 11/0844 UTC. This event was associated with a
CME first seen in NASA coronagraph imagery at approximately 11/0912 UTC.
However, given the source region an Earth-directed is not expected.
Growth was noted in new Region 3956 (N08E17,Dao/beta), though the region
remained quiet. The remaining regions were either stable or in decay.

.Forecast...
There is a chance for R1-R2 (Minor-Moderate) events, and a slight chance
for R3 or greater events, over 11-13 Jan.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels
and the greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
and moderate levels through 13 Jan. There is a slight chance for the
greater than 10 MeV proton flux to reach S1 (Minor) levels over 11-13
Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Mildly enhanced solar wind conditions and positive polarity CH HSS
influences prevailed this period. Total field ranged 6-9 nT. The Bz
component underwent a southward deflection that reached -8 nT near
10/2050 UTC. Solar wind speeds were 400 to 450 km/s. Phi was
predominantly positive.

.Forecast...
Positive polarity CH HSS influences are expected to continue, but wane
over 11 Jan. Ambient solar wind conditions are expected to prevail on
12-13 Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to active due to positive polarity
CH HSS influences.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to be quiet and unsettled on 11 Jan
due to continued, but waning positive polarity CH HSS influences. Mostly
quiet conditions are expected to prevail over 12-13 Jan with the return
of an ambient solar wind environment.


:Product: 02130030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 13 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity remained at low levels with C-class activity from new
Region 3992 (S06W11, Dai/beta-gamma). The Region continued to develop
quickly and increase in magnetic complexity. All other numbered regions
were stable and quiet.

No Earth directed CMEs were observed in available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low with a chance for (R1-R2,
Minor-Moderate) activity on 13-15 Feb.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux reached high levels with a peak
flux of 2,050 pfu observed at 12/1745 UTC. The greater than 10 MeV
proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
to high levels through 15 Feb. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is
expected to remain below S1 (Minor) levels through 15 Feb.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was enhanced by negative polarity CH HSS
influences. Total field Bt remained mostly steady near 6 nT, while the
Bz component varied between +/-6 nT. Wind speeds remained mostly steady
between about 500-550 km/s. The Phi angle was predominantly negative.

.Forecast...
The solar wind environment is expected to be enhanced on 13-15 Feb due
to onset and influence from the next negative polarity CH HSS.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was at unsettled to active levels due to negative
polarity CH HSS influence.

.Forecast...
G1 (Minor) storm periods are likely on 13 Feb due to onset of a negative
polarity CH HSS. Unsettled to active conditions are expected on 14-15 
Feb as CH influence continues.


:Product: 02060030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Feb 06 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was moderate. Both Regions 3977 (N18W41, Dai/beta-gamma)
and 3981 (N07W18, Ekc/beta-gamma-delta) produced low level M-class
flares. The largest was an M2.7 at 05/0750 UTC from Region 3977.
Associated with this flare were multiple discreet radio bursts, a type
II radio sweep (390 km/s), and a possible CME signature off the N limb
at 05/0824 UTC. Based on the trajectory and lack of a clear signature in
ST A COR2 imagery, it is unlikely to cause any significant enhancements
in the solar wind.

Separation and decay was observed in the intermediate and trailing spots
of Region 3981, while consolidation occurred in its leader spots. New
flux emergence was observed in the northern part of the group. Regions
3977 and 3984 (N16W27, Cai/beta) decayed slightly in their southern
spots while new spots emerged in their northernmost areas.

An 22-degree filament erupted in the south-west quadrant around 05/0120
UTC. A subsequent CME was observed in LASCO C2 at 05/0224 UTC. Model
analysis suggests that the bulk of the plasma will pass below Earths
orbit.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to reach moderate levels (R1-R2,
Minor-Moderate), with a chance for isolated X-Class (R3-Strong) events,
through 08 Feb due to the complex cluster of sunspot groups in the NW
Quadrant.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is likely to remain at moderate
levels through 08 Feb. The greater than 10 MeV proton levels have a
chance of reaching S1 (Minor) levels through 08 Feb due to the cluster
of magnetically complex regions moving into the western hemisphere.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were near nominal levels. Total field ranged from
2-8 nT while the Bz component was between +/-6 nT. Solar wind speed was
mostly between 360-435 km/s. Phi angle was predominantly positive.

.Forecast...
The solar wind is expected to remain at or near nominal levels on 06
Feb. Solar wind parameters are expected to become enhanced on 07 Feb due
to a glancing blow from the 02 Feb CME.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled.

.Forecast...
Quiet to unsettled conditions are expected to continue on 06 Feb.
Unsettled to active levels are expected on 07 Feb, followed by quiet to
unsettled conditions on 08 Feb, with the arrival of the 02 Feb CME.


:Product: 01290030forecast_discussion.txt
:Issued: 2025 Jan 29 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity has been at moderate levels due to an M1.7 at 28/1945 UTC
from Region 3977 (N19E67, Cao/beta-gamma) with multiple C-Class flares
throughout the period. Region 3977 and Region 3976 (N13E69, Dac/beta)
have been the primary flare producers and continue to rotate around the
NE limb into better view. Most other regions that are in the west have
been in decay or stable.

A Type II radio sweep with a velocity of 580 km/s was observed at
28/0806 UTC with no Earth-side flare detected. GOES-16 SUVI 195 imagery
shows a break in the field lines in the SW part of the disk beyond the
west limb. At about this same time Solar Orbiter observed a C1.8 flare;
this could be the culprit but its too difficult to tell. A CME was
observed in SOHO/LASCO imagery and modelled. Analysis shows the bulk of
the plasma passing ahead of Earth with a weak ripple arriving for a weak
glancing blow on 31 Jan.

.Forecast...
Solar flare probabilities remain low but have increased slightly, from
25% to 35% for M-Class (R1-R2 Minor-Moderate) and 1% to 5% for X-Class
(R3-Strong) over 29-31 Jan due to enhanced activity coming from Regions
3976 and 3977.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux has been at moderate levels. The
greater than 10 MeV proton flux was at background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux at geostationary orbit is expected
to remain mostly at normal to moderate levels 29-31 Jan with an elevated
flux possible during diurnal maxima up to high levels. Due to regions in
the west moving beyond the limb the chances for reaching the S1 (Minor)
radiation storm levels is low and the greater than 10 MeV protons is
expected to remain at background levels 29-31 Jan.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters have remained enhanced throughout the period. This
may be due to the arrival of the filament eruption that occurred 26 Jan
that was projected to arrive late 28 Jan into 29 Jan. The total field
(Bt) was between 8-10 nT with an extended period of the Bz component
being deflected southward between roughly 28/0800 through 28/1800 UTC,
dropping as low as -9 nT. Solar wind speeds remained low between
300-350 km/s. The phi angle was mostly negative (towards the Sun) prior
to 28/0900 UTC and became highly variable thereafter.

.Forecast...
An enhanced solar wind regime will likely continue into 29 Jan as
filament eruptions tend to last longer - if that is whats causing the
current conditions. A return to nominal levels is likely 30 Jan with
another enhancement expected 31 Jan from the glancing blow associated
with the Type II radio sweep discussed in the Solar Activity section.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field reached active levels for the 18-21 synoptic
period and has been mostly quiet to unsettled otherwise. A K-index = 4
Warning was issued and remains valid through 26/0600 UTC.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to remain below the G1 (Minor)
geomagnetic storm thresholds 29-31 Jan. However, with two weak passing
blows expected and multiple transients intermixed from small eruptions
from the disk, confidence is low over the coming days. The field will
likely be unsettled (Kp=3) with a slight chance for active (Kp=4)
conditions. Confidence remains especially low for the second passing
blow associated with the CME described in the Solar Activity section.
Modelling suggests an arrival on 31 Jan, but this may be overrun by the
high speed stream from the positive polarity coronal hole that is
expected to arrive on 01 Feb.

-Bri 


